=== Advanced OCR Text Extraction Result ===
Original File: 5266Financial Management(VERY GOOD)_458.pdf
Extraction Method: Image-based OCR (pypdfium2 + Tesseract)
Language: bn+en
Extracted Characters: 1031779
Processing Date: 2025-08-28 15:35:39
============================================================

The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
CA Professional Level

Financial Management ;

The Institute of'Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh Professional Level

ISBN: 978-08576-0808-6

Previous.ISBN: 978-08576-0467-5

First edition 2009

Second edition.2017

All rights reserved, No part. of ‘this- publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system or
transmitted in. any form.or by any means, electronic, ‘mechanical, photocopying, ‘recording or
otherwise; without.the' prior written.permission.of the publisher:

oe

D>
০. Introduction vil
° Financial, Management ix
০: Key resources x
1. Objectives 1.
2, Inyvestmént appraisal M7
3. Risk and decisionmaking: 101.
4. Sources of finance 143.
5. (0০০০(০1০801081 181.
6. Capital.structure 235
7, Equity‘sotirces.and dividend policy 271.
8. Business planning, valuation and restructiiring 297
9. Mariaging financial-risk:. interest-rate and other risks 359
10. Managing financial :risk: overseas trade 403
° Appendices: formiilae and discountitables 455

মে

1. Introduction
CA Overview!
The ICAB chartered accountancy qudlification, the CA, is one of the most: advanced learning and :professional,
development programmes available: Its integrated.components provide7you with an in-depth understanding: across:
accountancy; finance ‘and business. Combined, they:help: build the technical knowledge, professional. skills and
practical experience needed. to:.become an ICAB Chartered.Accountant.
Each.component‘is designed to complement each other, which means that.students put theory‘into’ practice and ‘can
understand and‘apply what‘they learn to’their day-to-day work. The components are:
Key Professional development: ক
- Ethics and professional‘scepticism
§ 3.4. years practical work experience
& 17 accountancy, finance and business‘modules ,
\ TICABGIARIERED ASSCOUNTANIT
Professional development:
ICAB Chartered Accountants: are. known for their professionalism and expertise. Professional development ‘will
prepare you to successfully handle a variety of different situations that’you’1l encounter throughout’your career.
The CA qualification-improves your:ability and performance in seven.key areas:
০ adding value
© communication:
© consideration.
০. decision ’making
০ problem. solving
° team working
® téchiniGal Competerice..
Ethics aiid ‘professional scepticism‘
Ethics is ‘more than just knowing’the rules around confidentiality,:integrity, objectivity“and independence.
It’s about identifying ethical dilémmas, understanding the implications and behaving appropriately. We integrate
ethics throughout’the CA, qualification to: develop your ethical capabilities —.so you'll. always know how to ifiake
the-right decisions-and justify them.
Practical work.experience is.done as’part.of a'training agreement with one-of ICAB Member in practice authorised
to-‘traim students. Students need to complete articleship for ar period of three/ four years. The knowledge, skills and
experience they gain as ‘part.of their articleship agreement are ‘invaluable, giving them the opportunity to put: what
they:re’learning into practice.
J7-accountancy, finance and business modules,
You will gain in-depth knowledge across a. broad range of. topics ‘in accountancy, :finance’:and business. The
modules are:designed.to.fit with your practical:experience, so you constantly progress through the qualification.
There are 17 modules over three levels. These can be. taken in any order. with the. exception of: the. Case Study’
which. has to be attempted last. You must pass every'exam (or. receive credit) — there: are no options. ‘This ensures
that once‘qualified, all ICAB Chartered, Accountants have a-consistent level -of knowledge, skills‘and experience:
Introduction | Vv

ADVANCED ভে টা J
LEVEL রণ ট্ :
sTaxation)
PROFESSIONAL ' য় ‘
LEVEL | | -
. FinancialfAccounting 7
Auditfand!Assurance - [FinanciallManagement sTax{Gompliance)
pandiReporting) | Governanc

CERTIFICATE, . . Business লি Management Principles ‘Information

LEVEL Accounting ‘Assurance and.Finance law Information of Taxation. | |Technology
There are seven:modules thatwill.introduce the:fundamentals of. accountancy, finance and business.
They éach have. a.2 hours. examination: except ‘Principle of Taxation’ which will,be:of 3 hours, and Business Law,
IT each will be 1.5 hours duration, Students may be eligible for credit for some modules: if they have studied
accounting,.finance, law-or-business at degree:level or:through another‘professional: qualification,
Investment: appraisal techniques:are introduced.in;:Management Information. An application of.how businesses are
set ‘up and, organised from, a ‘capital perspective ‘is part of Business and Finance. These two Certificate ‘Level
modules are:the:foundations of Financial. Management.
Professional Level.
The next seven ;modules build. on the fundamentals and, test your understanding: and ability to use technical
knowledge in real-life ‘scenarios. Each module. has a 3 hour, exam, ‘which are available’to ‘sit: two times per year.
These modules. are flexible:and can be: taken in any order. The Business Planning: Taxation: and. Business ‘Strategy
modules in, particular will help you'to progress to the Advanced, Level.
The knowledge. base that.is put intorplace: at Certificate Level is developed further in the Financial Management
module: Here; the aim:is.to‘enable you.to:recommend options for financing a. business, recognise-and manage.links
and‘make:appropriate investment.decisions.
‘Advanced Level.
The Advanced-Level module of Corporate Reporting requires you to apply the technical knowledge you have built
at Professional Level, along’ with.analytical techniques and, professional skills, to:resolve compliance-and business
issues that arise in the context of the preparation; and evaluation. of corporate reports: and. from providing audit
services. At the-Strategic: Business:Management module, you will need to demonstrate -quantitative-and qualitative:
skills to make realistic: ‘business recommendations in complex scenarios. You will also need. to demonstrate
business awareness, at strategic, operating and transactional levels. These modules have a 3: hour exam and are
available to-sit:twice-a:year.,
The Case, Study ‘will require you ‘to provide. advice: in ‘respect of complex ‘business: issues;, and, will assess your
ability to. analyse. financial, and non-financial data, exercise professional and ethical judgement, and develop
conclusions and.recommendations: The:Gase-Study-is 3 4 hour exam,and,is available to.sit:twice a year.
The above.diagram illustrates how the.knowledge-of financial.management:principles gives a platform from which
a'progression of’ skills and, financial management‘expertise is developed.
For more.information.on the GA qualification exam structure.and syllabus, visit.ICAB.org.bd/students;

2 Financial Management
2:1, Module aim
To enable candidates to.recommend relevant options for. financing-a business, recognise and manage. financial, risks
and:make:appropriate-investment.decisions.
ti | ‘Financial management.

2.2: Specification grid.
This grid shows the relative weightings of subjects within. this :module ‘and should ‘guide’ the’ rélative ‘study time
spent on each. Over time the marks. available in the assessment will equate to the weightings below, while slight
variations may‘occur in individual.assessments to‘enable:suitably rigorous questions to be set.

Weighting (%)
Financing options 35
Managing: financial risk 30
Investment decisions and-valuation 35

Your,exam. will consistof one. part.consisting.of long form:written test questions worth 100 marks.
The exam may-consist of three.or’four questions.
Time available 2.5 hours.
Introduction | wh

ক eee A eS ip হত Te den ইট sa"
2 SR pL Raia TT dese pea eg so নর — ——— SO kta: যা Chan «32 Q
ee 1১১ Pi 1000 PUREE ae Ae fan Sa ই ১ Vie
Sis eine fg) ee eel UTE Teese Lee ee se ee
77 aaa | PL: Ee
Objectives
Introduction.
Examination.context
Topic List
1 Business and.financial strategy
2 Stakeholders and;their objectives
Summary and Self-test
Answers to Interactive. questions
Answers to Self-test:
je

Introduction

Learning objectives Tick off
০ To.explain the:general objectivesiof financial ‘management [|
০ ‘To explain the-roles played by. different.stakeholders in the:financial strategy selected by a business L
© °To.identify possible:conflicts of objectives.between different:stakeholders 1
The syllabus:references that relate to this.chapter-are 18, b;.d,e and.f:
Syllabus links:
The area of corporate governance is‘more rigorously explored in the Business and. Finance-and, Assurance papers.
The financial strategy of.a.business-will be. strongly influenced by. the business, strategy chosen, hence this subject
néeds ‘to be-viewed .in, the:context-of:the topics explained in Business Strategy.
In-terms of linkages: within Financial Management, this chapter. provides a.backdrop against which the techniques
and, topics:-explored in. this. study manual. can:be viewed. It:inevitably makes.reference to ideas.and terminology ‘that
are-explored. more fully in later chapters. Consequently-this chapterjshould be ,réturned, to after studying the other:
chapters in this manual.
In the exam, candidates may be required. to discuss the likely: objectives ০1 various ;stakeholders, and comment
upon. how coriflicting objectives might be:reconciled.

21 | ‘Financial Management

1, Business‘and.financial strategy 8

Section overview A
“১৫ ০ Strategic. planning addresses the.long-term direction 0016 business. v
e _ Business:strategy is concerned with. how the. business-will- achieve its ‘objectives. |
° Financial strategy. is.concetnéd with the financial implications of the. business strategy. R
4.1, ‘What is'strategy?: 7
Most businesses will undertake: some form of: strategic: planning (either ‘formally. or, informally). Strategic
planning ‘is concerned, with. the long-term direction. of the business (eg which. products. should it sell in, which
markets), ‘and how the business will achieve ‘its. objectives, ie-its business: strategy (01 strategies). The Business =
Strategy:exam deals with much of the detail relating to strategic planning-and business ‘strategy; eg how in,order
for-a’business to achieve its objectives it.must interact with its environment, its.available:resources.(eg physical.and
human assets) and its:stakeholders:
1:2) Financial-strategy:
This is concerned. with the financial aspects of the strategic planning process, so in reality they are part.and parcel
of the same overall picture. This chapter examines some 06 the financial strategy aspects: of setting objectives and
dealing with stakeholders.
Having decided on its overall direction and, objectives a firm.must then make more detailed. supporting financial
decisions over the medium. to. short term. The Financial Management syllabus..is concerned with three broad
categories.of these. financial decisions: which must be.made, and. these:are outlined below.
Other, aspects of short-term, decision ‘making:are dealt with.in some. of the other:examination. papers, eg budgeting
and. variances.are covered. in the Management Information paper.
Investment
decisions
Financing = Risk management
decisions decisions
‘Three categories of financial decisions ,
1.3. Investment-decisions
These are:concerned with.how. a‘firm decides whether, for example, to buy plant:and.equipment or introduce a‘new
product to'the market.
Investment decisions were introduced ‘in Management. Information, and.are’taken ‘further in.Chapter.2. ‘These are of.
fundamental importance, particularly as there is a risk that'things could .go’wrong. .For’example, if a:firm.introduces
anew product.and demand for it ‘turns out to’be:far less than:expected.then, depending on.the’size‘of the investment
made, the future.of the firm could. be in jeopardy. Even if:it survives, it will:probably“have ‘to explain itself*to its
investors (eg shareholders, banks).
1.4, Financing decisions:
These are: concerned with ‘such ‘matters as. how. a firm should be financed — solely by equity (shares) ‘or by a
combination.of equity and debt;,and in what proportions.
Objectives | 3

Financing decisions are discussed in Chapters 4 and 5 and can‘be fundamental ‘to a firm's existence. In ‘times. 01
recession firms’that’have borrowéd hieavily often go bankrupt because cash flows have fallen to a,level insufficient
to-make interest payments on debt, It is for this type of reason that a greater amount.of ‘equity finance (on. which
dividend payments are discretionary).may be‘preferable'to debt. This is. discussed further‘in Chapter-6.

1:5: The dividend decision’
Ansimportant aspect of 'financing'decisions' is the ‘dividend decision’, this:is concerned with whether-or not a-firm.
should pay a.diyidend and, if one is'to be'paid,-how much’ that. dividend should be;
Of:particular importance.here.are the effects'of cutting dividends —‘what willbe the:reaction of shareholders facing
a cut in their income? If the company'is quoted what will this-do to the share price?
These issues. are:discussed-in Chapter 7.

4:6. Risk management decisions:
These are concerned with how a business manages risk in relation to investment decisions, financing decisions and
liquidity; currency and.credit decisions:
Aspects of.risk“and uncertainty surrounding:investment appraisal are explored in Chapter 3, Financial:risks such as
currency and interest rate changes have created the need for. risk reduction. or hedging: ‘strategies. These are
explored in Chapters 9*and 10,

1.7 Inter-relationships:
There ‘are inter-relationships between all’ of these decisions. Chapter 8 explores business planning, which brings
together investment.and finance decisions:

ডলে Worked'éxample: Inter-relationships
Gq Relationship Bangle
A company's chosen business strategy will determine A.retailing company makes a‘strategic’decision.to
the.necessary investment.decisions to put.into place'the ‘widen its‘markets:
required assets
"পা new stores

The new assets trigger a demand for capital.ie A.new-issue of debt is made
financing decisions, |
The ongoing implementation of the:strategy causes. ‘Overseas expansion creates a‘need for hedging-activity’
cashflow ‘demands, as well.as a different:risk profile
which,requires, risk management decisions to.be:taken..

8: Financial.economics:
Financial economiés is covered in‘this Financial Management study manual.as follows:
০ Discounted cash flows and“NPV —.see chapters 2:and 3.
০ Financial economic‘models such as‘ CAPM and Modigliani-and Miller—see:chapters 3 and 6..

৫ | ‘Financial. Management

2, Stakeholders:and their:objectives: ৪

পম Section overview A
Ka , a. P
Meas ০ A.stakeholder is someone who.has.an.interest in the performance:of a firm Tv
e Shareholders" objective — of wealth:maximisation’— is the primary. objective. E}
© Conipanies have-a framework of objectives, which may be in conflict with oné-ahothér R
2.4, Objective 7
In. order to make the decisions noted ‘above, what those decisions are trying-to achieve:must be known, ie what:is
the: objective? ‘Your objective (hopefully) 15:00 pass your Financial Management.examination. ‘However, what are
the:objective(s) of:a firm? This depends on the objectives of the-stakeholders' who make up ‘the:firm. =
Stakeholders ‘are individuals. or groups who have an. interest inthe performance of a firm although. their various
goals may‘not.always coincide.
TS oe) Interactive question'1: Stakeholder objectives (Difficulty level: Easy]
ma Eilllinsyouranswer
eo Who are the'main
stakeholders in a business:
and:whatiare their likely’
objectives?
© How might they-conflict?
০ How might the conflict.
be resolved?
See Answer at the end ofthis chapter.
Objectives | 8

2:22: Conflict:and an overriding objective:

Return ‘It is generally accepted that the interests of shareholders: should be put first (at least: as a
starting point: in. the decision making process), This means aiming to take decisions which
maximise the wealth of the shareholders. Wealth is measured by the value: of the firm's shares,
which reflects the net‘present’ value of any projects taken on by the firm, The share price: also
take§ ‘into account the retufris to the shareholders ‘in terms. of dividend. payments and the risk
attached 'to‘those-returns.

Risk Risk may be viewed.as the:likelihood of the:réturns, being achieved. Logically, therefore, ifttwo
firms produce the same:feturns but with different risks, the less-risky firm will be-worth more.

Stakeholders The existence:of multiple stakeholders can.lead to multiple objectives. These objectives may.
or;may not be:in conflict. ‘For, example, if seems reasonable to assume that a well-motivated
workforce whose. objectives ০01 pay, security and conditions are. met is consistent with .a
‘profitable and, stable future fora firm. and its shareholders. On the other hand, if controlling
‘pollution imposes increased. costs ‘on a firm (through government. legislation), then returns to
shareholders may: be.reduced.

Shareholders .By’focusing on a single-objective® (that of increasing shareholder wealth) :clear‘decisions can be
made. The rest of this manual develops the decision making tools‘which link:to: this objective.
Once: the basic decision.is ‘made: in terms of. whether ‘or not shareholder wealth, is: maximised,
the complications of: multiple (conflicting) objectives can.be taken.into-account.

Satisficing The firm may then attempt to 'satisfice' —‘that-is make decisions which allow for the (partial)
Satisfaction: of the stakeholder objectives:but which do.not-fully maximise shareholder wealth.

2.3, Agency theory-and managerial:objectives:
The telationships between the various, interested. parties in, the firm are-often described in terms, of agency: theory.
Agency relationships occur when one: party; ‘the principal, employs another party, ‘the agent, to perform a-task or:a
set of tasks, on his behalf..In many ofthese principal/agent relationships conflicts of interest can exist.
Shareholders
‘principal’
Directors.
‘agent!
Suppliers —» >» Customers.

One of the most‘important of. these: potential. conflicts is between shareholders: (principals) and directors (agents).
Though both of these ‘parties tend. to have similar objectives for the ‘firm,, there. can be differences. With some
firms, shareholders insist that part of the directors' remuneration is linked. to the extent; to which, shareholders"
wealth is enhanced. For ‘instance, directors are sometimes given long-term share option schemes. Sometimes
management audits are used to monitor the:‘actions of the directors. These arrangements have::a cost: to. the
shareholders, often referred to as‘agency-costs.
Some:of these:agency:costs will be considered ‘in.later chapters.,

(2 Interactive question 2:'Conflicts between shareholders and directors; ১১১১ ১৬ ১

= ° (Difficulty level: Easy]!
Spécific areas in which:conflicts of interest might occur between-directors and shareholders :includé thé following.
০ Takeovers

6 | ‘Financial Management

iC)

৩০ Time horizon FAN
RA
v
E}
R
০ Risk:
a
© =>: Debt
For-each of ‘these, explain, why: the directors might pursue an .agenda which is at-odds with the maximisation ‘of
shareholder’ wealth.
See Answer at the énd of this chapter.
Practical:illustrations;
It has been argued that:in.the 1990s directors-used maximising shareholder wealth (or shareholder value) as'a cover
to-do what they wanted. Shareholders’ were not concerned as rising share prices kept: them happy’ whilst directors
profited ‘from share’ option schemes. Then. came major falls ‘in world stock: markets and: revelations that.criminal.
behaviour had been used to’achieve higher share prices:.A. dramatic example of:this is Enron.
Enron‘was initially an.energy producer, but moved onto the.trading of energy and water — these:commodities
can. be. bought, sold, and hedged just. like shares and bonds. By. taking risky positions ‘in these energy.
products, Enron grew'to. become America's seventh largest:company, employing:21;000:staff:in:more than 40
countries.
Fortune: magazine named Enron ‘America's’ Most Innovative.Company’ for-six. consecutive’ years: from 1996
to: 2001. In one year, ‘Ken Lay — Enron's founder and. former chairman — earned $252m including: stock"
options.
The desire to:maintain a. profitable’ face.to the-outside world however resulted in the-collapse of the.company.
Jeffrey Skilling, Enron's former chief executive, faced 28 counts of fraud, conspiracy, insider trading and
lying: to auditors for allegedly trying to fool investors into believing Enron was healthy before the firm
crashed. Skilling was‘jailed for 24 years,
Ken ‘Lay had faced six counts of fraud and conspiracy for perpetuating ‘the scheme after, Skilling quit in
August 2001. Ken.Lay died after being convicted..
Enron left. behind $31.8bn (£18bn) of debts; its shares became worthless, and 21,000 workers around. the
world lost'their, jobs.
Shareholders have now’begun to flex their. muscles ‘and take a much more active interest in what; companies and
directors aré doing, eg the chaitman.of Royal Dutch/Shell was forced:to step down. Michael Eisner of Disney was
obliged. to give up.his chairmanship (but not the chief executiveship) after 43% of shareholders, voted against his
reappointment.
2.4, Ethical considerations
Directors/managers (and.:shareholders)-are often, faced with ethical.considerations in setting objectives:and making
financial decisions, for example increasing. profits. by using foreign. child labour; polluting the ‘environment or
using ‘non-renewable energy because: it is cheaper, or exploiting superior (inside) information. .A firm's. value can,
depend very much on its:reputation. Many, such.as the ‘major banks, spend. years building trust with customers-and
Objectives | q

suppliers, establishing a,name for fair’ dealing and financial integrity, Fraud, allegations. of dishonesty or’ a
reputation for:sharp business practice and so on-can‘undermine years of hatd work.and with it, shareholder value.
Some businesses explicitly:state their ethical, principles. in order to distinguish themselves, eg Body. Shop (animal
testing), Co-op (fair trade).

8 | ‘Financial Management

Summanyzandselfetests টে
টম]
A
P
Summary. B
fofishareholderawealth a
:
‘A ° ) cGiven;the| power
= | ৰা [৬০০৮০ ও
:/ টব ; ওলা ।
befreinvestedyandihow,
Objectives E

Answer the following questions.
1] ‘Financial. managers need only concentrate on meeting the:needs of shareholders by:maximising, earnings’ per
share —.no other‘group matters.’
Discuss. (10 marks)
2 “Many decisions, in financial management are ‘taken. in, a framework. of conflicting stakeholder viewpoints,
‘Tdentify the:stakeholders,and some of ‘the financial; management-issues involved in the following situations:
(a) A private company’converting into a public company:
(b) A highly geared,company, such_.as_Eurotunnel, attempting:to:restructure its capital.
(০) A large conglomerate: ‘spinning off" its numerous divisions by. selling them, or setting: them. 'up as
separate companies (eg Hanson),
(d) Japanese car-makers, such as Nissan and. Honda, building:new’car plants‘in other countries.
(10 marks)
ও Assume-you are’ Finance Director of a.large multinational company, listed on-a number of international stock,
markets, The company ‘is reviewing its corporate plan. At present, ‘the company focuses. on maximising:
shareholder wealth as-its major goal.. The Managing Director thinks"this single.goal 18 inappropriate and asks
his co-directors for their-views on-giving ‘greater’emphasis to the.following:
(i) Cash-flow generation
Gi). Profitability-as measured by profits.after-tax and.return_on.investment,
(iii) Risk-adjusted:returns to shareholders
(iv). Performance improvement ‘in a number of areas’ such 89001106111 for the environment, employees”
remuneration and-quality of working’conditions and.customer satisfaction
Requirement.
Provide the Managing-Director with a:feport’for-preséntation at the next board meeting-which:
(a) Discusses the argument that maximisation of shareholder wealth ‘should be the only true objective of:a
firm, and
(b) Discusses the.advantages:and disadvantages of ‘the MD's suggestions about alternative:goals.
(10 marks)
4 Acompany‘is considering improving the:methods:of remuneration for its senior employees. As ৪ member ‘of
the:executive board, you are-asked to give your opinions on.the:following suggestions:
(a) A high basic, salary with usual 'perks' such as company car, pension scheme etc but no performance-
related bonuses
(b) A lower basic salary with usual 'perks" plus a:bonus‘related to their division's profit before tax
(c) A lower basic salary with usual ‘perks" plus. a share option ‘scheme: which. allows ;senior employees’ to
buy a.given:number of’shares in the:company:at.a fixed price-at.the:end of each. financial year,
Requirement.
Discuss the:arguments-for. and against each. of the three options:from:the point of view of both the company
and _its:employees. Detailed comments:on the taxation implications are:not required.
(10 marks)
Now, go. back. to. the Learning: Objectives in, the Introduction. If. you are satisfied you. have. achieved. those
Objectives, please:tick them off.
10) | ‘Financial. Management

ATSwers to lhnternciive cmesiions ও

A

বিল er ee P

‘Answer. to Interactive question’ 1 v

০ Shareholders maybe interested in,the dividends ‘they recéive andthe price of their shares (assuming they aré 5
quoted);

° Managers may be‘interested in their:salary, perks (eg office size), relative power, etc;

° Employees may be interested. in;their pay; sécurity of employment, working conditions, etc; q

০ Unions tend-to.have the:same objectives as:employees;

‘8 Government.may. be interested.in.ensuring that firms do nothing:illegal, ‘pay appropriate taxes, etc; -

© — Society-at large may be interested, for:example.in ensuring that pollution levels are’ kept'to.a minimum,

° The conflicts are perhaps apparent. Shareholder‘returns will be-compromised in the short term by allowing:
other stakeholders" objectives to be achieved;

০ The resolution of’ this conflict is typically achieved, in the longer term, as motivated managers, loyal
customers etc are likely‘to. result:in a: more successful company. For example, greater:sales, harder working:
employees, committed .suppliers:all contribute to higher growth, higher prices and.a higher share price, hence
maximising shareholder:wealth.

‘Answer to Interactive.question-2

৩ Takeovers:

Victim.company managers often devote large amounts of time and money to ‘defend’ their.companies against.
takeover. However; ‘research.has shown’ that shareholders in companies’ that-are successfully taken.over often
earn large’ financial returns. On the other hand, managers of companies that are taken’ over frequently lose
their-jobs! This‘is a common example of the conflict-of iinterest-between the two groups.

০ Time.horizon
Managers know that, their, performance is usually’ judged on their short-term, achievements; shareholder
wealth, on the other.hand, is affected by the long-term performance of the firm. Managers can:frequently be
observed to, be taking a short-term view of the:firm which jis in their own best interest but not:in that of. the
shareholders:

°° Risk
Shareholders appraise risks by looking at the-overall risk’ of their investment in a wide range of shares. They
do not have ‘all their eggs in. one basket’, unlike managers whose career prospects and ‘short-term. financial.
remuneration depend.on the success of their:indiyidual firm.

o §=>. Debt
As managers are:likely to be more.cautious ‘over risk than shareholders, they might wish to:adopt lower levels
of.debt:than would be:optimal for the-shareholders.

Objectives | M0

A Profit maximisation’

One of the:principles of the market economy is that if the owners of businesses attempt to achieve maximum,
profitability and earnings this will help:to increase the wealth of society. As a résult, it is usually assumed
that a proper objective for private: sector organisations is profit maximisation. "This ‘view ‘is substantially
correct. In general, the:market economy'has out-performed planned.economies in. most places in the world.
Two key objectives of financial managers must therefore be the effective management of shareholders’
furids and the provision of-financial information which will help’to increase shareholder wealth.
Problems’ with profit:maximisation
However, profit-seeking. organisations can also cause: problems. for society. For example, monopolists are
able ‘to earn, large returns ‘which are disproportionate ‘to the benefits ‘they bring to society:. The costs of
pollution: fall on, society rather'‘than on the company. which is. causing it. A company may increase
profitability by making some of-its work-force redundant“but.the costs of unemployed.people fall on. society
through the social security system.
The question, ‘that -then. follows: is ‘Should individual companies be: concerned. with -these market.
imperfections?’
Government's:role
There are.‘two opposing ‘viewpoints. On the one hand 10 can be argued that companies ‘should. only, be
concerned with maximisation of:shareholders’ wealth. It is the role of. government, to pick-up the problems
of market.imperfections (eg: by breaking: up monopolies,. by firing polluters and by paying social security
benefits).
Stakeholder interests
An alternative viewpoint: is that.a company: is a coalition: of ‘different: stakeholder groups: shareholders,
lenders, directors, employees, customers, suppliers, government and.-society as a whole.’ The objectives of all
these. groups, which. are often in conflict, need to be considered by :company managers when making’
decisions. From this viewpoint, financial managers cannot be content with meeting the:needs of shareholders
only..
Consideration ‘of stakeholders
The truth;is somewhere in between. The over-riding-objective of companies.is to create long-term‘ wealth for
shareholders. However. this ‘can. only be done.if. we consider the likely behaviour of other:stakeholders. For
example, if we create extra short-term profits by cutting.employee benefits or:delaying payments tocreditors
there-are likely to be: repercussions which reduce: longer, term. shareholder wealth. Or. if we. fail to motivate
managers. and employees adequately, the costs of the resulting: inefficiencies will ‘ultimately ‘be borne by.
shareholders:
Conclusion
In. summary, the financial manager is concerned with managing the company's. funds on. behalf. of
shareholders, and, producing information which shows the likely effect of management decisions on.
shareholder. wealth. However management decisions will be made after, also. considering. other stakeholder
groups ‘and a good.financial manager will be aware that.financial information is ‘only one input. to the: final
decision.

121 | ‘Financial Management

2 (8 A private company. converting into a public:company

When. a'private’ company converts: into a public company, some of ‘the existing shareholders/managers: রদ

will. sell. their shares. to. outside investors. In addition, ‘new. shares: may be issued. The dilution of. A

ownership: might‘cause loss’of control by the’existing: management. P

The stakeholders involved:in potential.conflicts.are as follows., v

E}

(1) Existing shareholders/managers. R
They will want'to sell some of their shareholding:at.as high a.price-as possible. This:may-motivate
them‘to-overstate their company's prospects. Those shareholders/managers who wish to:rétire:from q
the. business may. be in conflict with those, who wish,to stay in control — the latter:may oppose the:
conversion into.a public: company.

(2) New outside shareholders .
Most of these will. hold minority stakes in. the company’ and will ‘receive their rewards as
dividends only.. This may put: them ‘in conflict. with. the existing shareholders/managers who
receive rewards as salaries as well as dividends. On conversion to ‘a public company there: should
be clear:policies on dividerids:and directors"remuneration.

(3) Employees, including managers‘ who-are not shareholders
Part of the. reason for: the. success of. the company will be the efforts made: by employees. ‘They
may feel that they should benefit;when ‘the company goes’ public. One-way of. organising: this is to
‘create:employee:share. options or other bonus schemes.

(b) A highly:geared company attempting to restructure its‘capital

The major.conflict here is between shareholders and.lenders..If a company is‘very highly geared, the:

shareholders maybe tempted to take very. high.risks. If the: gamble’fails, they ,have-limited liability and

can. only lose the value of. their. shares. If they are lucky, they:may make returns many times.the value of

their, shares. The problem, is. that the shareholders are effectively. gambling: with. money provided. by

lenders, but those:lenders will get.no:extra.return.to:compensate.for the:risk.

Remoyal of.risk

In restructuring, the company, something must 6 done-either'to shift tisk away from the lenders or to

téward the lendefs for'taking-a risk.

Risk can, be:shifted away‘ from lenders by taking Security on previously-unsecured loans or by writing

Festrictive covenants into loan agreements (eg the company agrees to set a:ceiling to-dividend pay-outs.

until gearing:is reduced,.or to confine its business to agreed activities).

Lenders: can, be compensated for taking risks by either negotiating: increased interest: rates: or, by the

issue.of 'sweeteners’ with the loans, such as:share warrants or, the issue of.convertible loan stock.,

Other‘stakeholders

Other stakeholders: who will. be interested in ‘the arrangeiients include trade creditors (who will be:

interested that'loan creditors do not-improve-their-position at the expense of'themsélves).and managers,,.

who are likely to be more tisk averse than shareholders if their livelihood depends on, the company's

continuing existence.

(০) A large conglomerate spinning off its divisions

Large conglomerates may sometimes have a market:capitalisation:which is less than the total realisable

‘value:of the subsidiaries. This is.referred:to.as ‘conglomerate.discount'. It:arises because moresynergy

could be found by. the combination of the group's businesses with competitors than by. running a

diversified group’where there is:no-obvious benefit:from-remaining together.

Objectives | 13}

For many years, Hanson Trust was the-¢xception to this situation, but Subsequently:it decided ‘to break,
up the group.
The stakeholders involved in potential ‘conflicts are as follows.
(1) Shareholders
They will see:the-chance:of immediate gains:in share-price:if subsidiaries ‘are sold.
(2) ‘Subsidiary.company directors and:employees
They may-either'gain opportunities (eg if'their company becomes independent) or:suffer the threat
of job loss (eg if their company-is sold to a competitor).

(৫) Japanese car makers building new car'plants in other countries
The-stakeholders involved in potential conflicts are as:follows.

(1) The shareholders:and:management of the Japanese; company
They will be able to gain from the combination of advanced technology with.a cheaper-workforce.

(2) ‘Local employees‘and:managers.engaged by the. Japanese company
They will. gain. enhanced skills and better: work prospects.

(3). The government of the local country, representing the tax payers
The: reduction. in unemployment, will ease the, taxpayers’ burden and increase: the government's
popularity (provided that.subsidies:offered by the:government‘do:not.outweigh the benefits!)

(4) Shareholders, managers and employees of local car-making firms
These:will_be.in conflict-with.the other'stakeholders above.as.existing manufacturers lose:market:
share.

(5) Employees-:of car plants based in Japan
These. are likely ‘to lose work if car-making is relocated to/lower wage areas. They will need to.
compéte:on the basis of: higher efficiency.

ও REPORT

To: Managing Director

‘From: ‘Finance Director

Date: 17.November 20X5

Subject: ‘Discussion‘of corporate objectives

Introduction

‘I This report:has been drafted for use as:a discussion documentiat:the forthcoming board meeting. Itdeals
with. the: validity of continuing to operate with, the single. major goal. of. shareholder’ wealth
maximisation. The remaining ‘sections of the. report .contain. an ‘analysis of. the. advantages and
disadvantages of. some of the alternative objectives that have been put forward:in.recent discussions.

Maximisation of shareholder wealth

2 The concept that the primary financial objective of the. firm ‘is to maximise the wealth of
shareholders, by:which is:meant the’ net present value’ of estimated future cash flows, underpins much
‘of:modern financial theory..

ও While the relevarice of the wealth maximisation goal is under discussion, it: might also be useful to
consider the’ way in which this type of‘objective.is defined, since this‘will impact:upon.both:parallel.and
subsidiary objectives. A ‘widely adopted approach is. to seek to ‘maximise the present. value of. the
projected cash flows. In this way, the: objective:is both made measurable and can be:translated into: a

1] | ‘Financial Management

yardstick: for financial decision making. It:cannot be defined, as a single attainable-target-but rather as.a
criterion, for'the continuing allocation of the:company’s:resources. C}
4 ‘There. has been sore recent! debate as to whether wealth maximisation, should or 0311 06 the-orly true fi
objective, particularly.in the context of the multinational company. The stakeholder view of corporate: A
objectives is‘thatsmany groups of people:have a.stake in what the:comipaniy. dogs. Each:of these groups, P
‘which include suppliers, workers,.managers, customers and_governiients as well.as shareholders, Has its v
own. objectives, and this means that ‘a compromise’ is required. For example, in the case of the |
‘multinational. firm with a facility’ in a politically unstable: third world economy, the directors may at R
times need to place the interests of. the local ‘government and. economy ahead of those: of jts
shareholders, in.part.at least:to ensure:its own continued stability there.
Cash. flow generation q
5 The validity of cash flow. generation. as a major corporate objective depends on ‘thé ‘timescale: over
which pérformance is measuted. If ‘the business maximises the nét present Value of the cash flows L
generated in the medium to long ‘term, then this objective is effectively the same: as that. discussed
above. However, if the aim is to maximise all, cash flows, then, decisions .are likely to ‘be:
disproportionately focused on short-term performance, and this.can work against'the long-term health,
of. the business. Defining objectives in terms of long-term-cash flow generation makes the shareholder:
wealth: maximisation goal:more ¢learly.definable ‘and measurable.
Profitability
6 Many companies use return on investment, (ROD) targets. to assess perforitiance and control the
business. This,is-useful for the comparison of widely. differing divisions within a diverse multinational
company, and can provide something approaching a ‘level playing ‘field’ when. Setting. targets for the:
different parts. of the business. It is-important that the measurement techniques to be used:in-respect of
both profits and 12883606836 are very clearly defined, and that’there is.a cléar and. consistent-approach
to accoufiting for-inflation, As with the cash flow generation targets discussed above, the sélection, of:
the time frame is also. important in ensuring ‘that: the selected objectives. do. work for the long-terin.
health:of the business.
Risk adjusted returns
7 Ttzis-asgumeéd that the use of risk’adjusted returns relates;to the-criteria used. for investment appraisal,
rather than to the: performance of-the group as a whole..As,such, risk adjusted, returns cannot be:used in
defining the top level major corporate goals; however they can be one way in which corporate goals
are made congruent with operating decisions, At the same time, they do provide a useful input:to the
goal setting process, in that; they focus attention ‘on the company's policy with regard to making risky
investments. Once the-overall.corporate approach to risk;has been decided, this can be:made effective in,
operating decisions, for example by specifying the amount by which, the cost of, capital is. to be:
‘augmented to allow for'risk in various types of investment decisions.
Performance improvement:in non-financial areas
8 As discussed in the first.section of this-report, recent, work:on corporate objectives suggests that firms
should take. specific account, of those areas which impact only indirectly, if: at all, on ‘financial.
performarice. The firm has responsibilities towards, many groups in addition to ‘the shareholders,
including:.
(a) Employees: to provide good working*conditions and. remuneration, the opportunity for personal
development,. outplacement help in the-event:of-redundancy and:so on.
(b) ‘Customers: to ‘provide a product: of good and consistent quality; good service and
communication, and open and fair-commercial practice
(c) The public: to ensure responsible disposal of waste products.
9 There are ‘many other interest. groups that. should, also be :included ‘in, the discussion process. ‘Non-
financial objectives may often work: indirectly to the financial benefit of-the:firm:in'the long term, but in
the:short’'term they do often.appear, to. compromise:the primary financial objectives:
Conclusions.
10. 1615 very difficult:to:find a comprehensive-and appropriate:alternative primary financial objective:to’ that
of. shareholder wealth. maximisation. However, achievement of this goal ‘can be pursued,, at least in
part, through: the setting of. specific subsidiary ‘targets. in terms: of items such.as return.on investment
Objectives | [151

and risk-adjusted returns, The establishment of non-financial objectives: should also be addressed:in the
context ofthe overall review of the corporate plan.

Signed: Finance. Director

4 Factors:affecting remuneration policy

(a) Cost: the extent to-which the package: provides value for money:

(b) Motivation: the extent:to:which the package motivates employees both.to stay with the company-and to
work:to their full. potential.

(c) Fiscal effects:. government tax.incentives may promote different types of*pay. At present there are tax.
benefits in offering some.types of:share option schemes. At times:of wage control and.high: taxation this
can.act’as an.incentive to make (01617021103 a:more significant part of the:package.

(d) Goal congruence: the. extent.to. which the package: encourages employees to work in.such a: way’as to
achieve: the objectives of the firm - perhaps to. maximise:rather than.to satisfice.

Option.(a)

In this: context, Option. (a) is likely to be relatively expensive with.no payback to: the:firm in times: of low

profitability. It is unlikely to encourage staff to:maximise their efforts, although the extent to which.it:acts: as

a motivator. will depend. on 016 individual. psychological make-up of the employees concerned. Many staff

prefer this type of package however, since they know where they are ‘financially. In the same way the

company is also able to budget:accurately. for its staff costs.

Option.(b)

The costs of this scheme will be lower, though. not proportionately so,.during atime of.low profits. ‘The-effect:

on-‘motivation will vary with the:individual concerned, and will.also.depend.on‘whether.it:is an individual or

a group performance calculation. ‘There is a further risk that figures and performance may be manipulated

by-managers in. such a way as to maximise. their bonus to the detriment of the: overall longer term company’

benefit.

Option (c)

A share option scheme (Option (c)) carries fiscal benefits in. the same way ‘as the performance:related ‘pay’

above.. It also. minimises the cost. to the firm since this is effectively borne ‘by the existing: shareholders

through the dilution of their holdings. Depending on. how pricing’ is determined, it-may assist in achieving
goal.congruence. However, since the share price depends’ on-many factors: which are external to the firm,.it.is

possible for the scheme to.operate: in a way which is unrelated to: the individual's performance..‘Thus such. a.

scheme: is unlikely to ‘motivate. directly through links ‘with performance. Staff will continue to obtain the

vast: majority of. their income from salary and. perks and. are ‘thus likely to be more concerned with
maximising these.elements of their:income'than. with working to raise the share price.
16 | ‘Financial Management

বা আম সম PREM IMPS 09 see
Saas ey ২২১১১২১০০৯১ re SAY ae a ed rat Won praetor (tah Ee.
2 Saree Pia nt দে MAY cairn eR —— SES ২ ও ঢু t ue 88 ey ৭ aus i +4 এট ও
গন ১১, পপ ডে ns eT tee এ ২১৩৭ ২ সেও একই রস তকে দিনে চট ot BEB. ডিও ॥ ৩
টে ই লি হি ক fe er ২ ২ ১ সী Fo’ Po
| ie 0৮১ 41 মর OBE: fait ia ae al see ees baad Ee eee ee SHAME Vise
panes ‘hi | mah esl RIAN UNEE re চস পর বন ই IG BN
SSS SS Be ae ee মত
Investment appraisal
লুল AD

Introduction.
Examination.context.
Topic List

1 Ranking’of:investment:appraisal'techniques

2 Relevant cash flows.

3. Taxation

4 Inflation.

5. Replacement-analysis.

6 Capital-rationing

7 Investment.appraisal‘in.a strategic context

8 Investing overseas
Summary and Self-test
Answers.to.Interactive questions
Answérs to-Self-test

[>

Introduction

Learning objectives: Tick off
° To explain the-decision-making’ process (]
e To.select and justify investment appraisal techniques Cl
০ —_ To.choose.appropriate values for use:in investment appraisal রা
‘@ = [00816 account of tax and.inflation |
০ ‘To recommend and justify a:course-of action. based on the results:of investment appraisal Li
© To.consider’televant-non-financial factors, including the limitations-.of the:techniques [
The syllabus'references relevant:to.this:chapter:are 1j, 3a, b, d, g.
Syllabus links:
This chapter develops the basic‘investment appraisal decisions introduced at-knowledge.level Management.
Information. The strategic context of these-decisions.is taken further'in'Business Strategy. The underlying
techniques will-be‘applied.in.exploring: valuation methods in.the: Advanced level paper Business Change.
Examination: context
In the examination you may be asked.to set.out'the relevant cash flows’of a decision, including tax:and inflation
effects, decide whether or:not.to make an investment, and’to discuss the:financial and. non-financial issues
surrounding it.

20) | ‘Financial Management

1, Ranking of investment appraisal.techniques;
=> . ‘
Section overview
e Financial management progresses the skills from knowledge level ‘into application level in the. ‘area of
investment:appraisal.,
® ‘Relative mérits and demerits mean that .discountéed.cash flow (DCF) techniqies such. as NPV and IRR. are.
supérior.
iC)
1.1, Recap‘of:investment appraisal techniques. A
Investment:appraisal was introduced at knowledge level.in the Management Information. paper. These: techniques vT
are:taken:further in this subject where:theyare-applied.to:more involved scenarios. ‘This: allows for a.progression of E}
skills from’knowledge into-application. R
Z
Payback The time taken for cash inflows from a project:to.equal the cash outflows.
Accounting rate of return a i টং
AC g ৩001 বি Average annual profit frominvestment x 100
Initial investment
or Average annual profit from investment 100
Average investment
where average investment = Initial outlay ae value
Note: profit is.after depreciation
Net'present value The ‘maximum van. investor would pay: for.a given ‘set: of cash flows (at his/her
cost’of. capital). compared to the actual amount he/she.is being:asked to pay:
The difference, the NPV, represents the change in wealth Of the investor as a
result of investing in the:projéct:,
Internal. rate-of:return A cost of:capital at which the NPV of a project.would be CUO.
IRR.is usually:found via interpolation using two discount rates..
RR=a+ 8 __ yay
NPVa—NPVb
Where ais the first'discount:rate giving NPVa
bis the second discount rate:giving NPVb
‘Investment appraisal: | 2.1]

ey Interactive question 1:'Revision of. basic techniques. [Difficulty level:’Easy],
Le A company is considering, expanding ‘its. business. The expansion will ‘cost .CU350,000 initially forthe premises
. and a further ‘CU150,000 to :refurbish the, premises with new equipment. Cash ‘flow projections’ from the project:
show the following:cashflows:over,the next:six’years..
Year Net cash flows
CU.
| 70,000
2 70,000
3 80,000
4 100,000
5 100,000
6 120,000
The equipment will be ‘depreciated fo. a zero resale value ‘over, the same period ‘and, after the: sixth year, :it ‘is
expected that-the new business, could be sold for CU350,000.
Requirements
Calculate
(a) The-payback period for the project
(b) ‘The-ARR (using the:average-investment.method)
(c) The NPV of the project. Assume.the.relevant cost.of. capital is' 12%
(d) The TRR.of the project;
See Answer at the end of'this chapter.
There are:four basic:investment. appraisal techniques that-are used in practice-by companies, The:reason why:some
are:used:more than others is because of their-relative.merits and.demerits:
| oH Interactive question 2:'Ranking of techniques (Difficulty level: Easy]
, প্র What are the relative merits and. demerits of the following investment appraisal. techniques and what.conclusion
—— would you. therefore:draw about their relative attractiveness?
Menfis Ranks
Payback
Accounting’ rate of return
Net:present value
Internal rate of, return
See.Answer at the end-of this chapter.
221 | ‘Financial Management

2, ‘Relevant cash-flows,
দে Section overview
LS
10 © (0891]0.00%/3 should be used:in investment appraisal rather-than profits as this more closely reflects the:impact:
on:shareholders* wealth.
০ —_ Relevant cash flows.are those which are affected by'the.decision.
© Opportunity costs reflect the cash forgone as a.consequence of-usingresources..,
2.1, ‘Why:cash flows rather.than profits?: G
When a firm:makes a long-term investment in a-project, rarely does the-profit in any year of the: project's life-équal, 8
the cash ‘flow. For example, in, cash ‘flow terms the purchase of plant and equipment may be represented by an T
outflow. at'the start of the:first’ year (i¢ the purchase), and an inflow at the:end of the-last’year (ie the scrap value).. In B
the annual income statements in between, what appears is the difference between. the initial cost and the scrap R
value, ie depreciation, which is vot cash flow.
In, addition, profit.méasurement is concerned with the time 09100 in which incdme and expenses aré recognised. —
Thus,: while the-income-statements might show CU100,000 for: sales, the actual, cash;réceipts may ‘be.much less as Q
somé cash 15 still to be: .fecéived, ie there are fécéivables. This inctéase in recéivables represents a further
‘investment’ in the-project:.
From a wealth, point of-view shareholders will be intérested:in when cash goes out.and when it is returned‘to them
in the form:of dividends, ie‘the-amount and timing of'the flows are important‘to them,
Over the life of a project the undiscounted net-flows will equal the total accounting profit/loss but. (because of the
above) the timing:will be different.
It:is also important to. appreciate-that;not_all cash, flows are necessarily relevant. In Management, Information the
behaviour of costs was introduced. Over a given period, some:costs are:fixed. and somé variable. Whilst all of the
costs for a period will be reflected in,the income’ statement ie they will influence the profit, they may not all be
relevant cash flows for.a particular decision, eg depreciation.
The section _below’on relevant cash flows.explores this-idea further.
‘2:2: Profits:to‘cash flows.
If income statement.information.is provided, there.are two adjustments which should be made:to convert: to cash
flows:
°. Depreciation — as‘noted above, depreciation ‘is nota cash flow and:should be:added. back: where it has been
deducted ‘in. arriving. at profits. The: initial. outflow and scrap. inflow will deal. with depreciation at the
appropriate time
° Working capital — a, project iiay involve not only investment in land, buildings ete but also-investment in,
working capital (inventory + receivables — payables), Incréases in, 060 working Capital represent an outflow,
decreases.an inflow.
: Worked example: Working’ capital
Gorgon.Ltd expects'the following,sales ‘from a.new project.over its three yéar life:
CU
ty 150,000
th 175;000
b 200,000
Working capital equal to 10% .of annual sales is required and it needs to bein ‘place at the:start of.each year,
Calculate the working capital flows.
First, calculate the absolute amounts of working: capital needed at the start: of each ‘year and then find the cash
‘Investment appraisal: | 23)

to ty te ts
CU CU CU CU

Working capital at:start 15,000 17,500 20,000 Nil

Cashflow: (15,000) (2,500) (2,500) 20,000

Only the incremental flow is, relevant, s6-for, example at-t; an additional CU2,500:is required over and. above the:

CU15,000 already-in-place:,

At'the:énd Of the projéct all working capital is:assumed to be-fecovered, ie-an, inflow of CU20,000 at ty.

. ie A company plans to make sales of CU100,000 2001, increasing by 10% per annum until-ty. Working capital equal.to

15% of annual.sales is‘required-at the:start-of-each year.

Requirement

What are-the working-capital cash flows?

See.Answer at the end: of ‘this chapter.

2.3: -Relevant’cash ‘flows:

The general rule is to include only those costs and revenues which can affect:the decision or be affected. by: it. This

means using: only future incremental cash: flows.. Future-flows are. used-as no decision now can change past cash

flows, incremental, ie changed, cash flows:are used because:flows which;continue into the future regardless of the
decision are irrelevant: to:the:decision.

(G4) Definition:

, aa The relevant cash flows are future, incremental; cash flows arising from the decision being made.

The relevant-cash flow.is the-difference bétween:

° __ The:cash-flow if the.course-of action is*taken, and

০ The éash flow: if.it,is-not

The assessment‘of relevant, cash. flows needs to be done-from.,the point:of view of:the business as a;whole and.not

individual divisions:or departments:,

Typical items. which are excluded from the analysis as:irrelevant are discussed below:.

» Sunk. costs — ‘money already spent, eg when. trying to determine whether an existing: machine. which cost.
CU250,000 three ‘years ago should be. used on a new project, the analysis should ignore the’ CU250,000 as
nothing can be:done about:it; instead, the machine's current worth (either scrap value or-cash benefits from
retention) should be included.

e Accouniting entries — eg depreciation (as discussed, above):is not.a cash flow

০. Book ‘values — eg FIFO/LIFO inventory values. This:is similar to sunk costs above as’ the FIFO/LIFO
‘conventions merely deal with the treatment of'money already spent’

° _Unavoidable costs.— money already committed, eg.a non-cancellable lease or apportioned fixed.costs. As far’
as fixed costs. aré concerned it is the total amount which is important (not. any: attempt to spread. the ,fixed
cost, 16 apportionment). If the total changes, then this.is:relevant; if not, the fixed costs aré. ignored. as they
are unaffected by: the: decision. For example; if. a firm. can make a new product. within its existing rented
factory, then any share 06016 rent‘apportioned. to the néw-product should be ignored asthe oral rent’ bill is
unchanged. However, if.a new factory needs to be rented, then the: additional rent is relevant:in the appraisal,
of the new product

° _ Finance.costs —.eg:interest: (discounting ‘deals with this by finding the present: value ‘of the flows-allowing for
the.time.the finance:is tied up and _the:interest rate)

Specifically. include:

০ All opportunity costs and:févenves.,

24) | ‘Financial Management

2:4: 01000101110%:00905-3110-1-0011005
(4) Definition:
el The opportunity cost of a.resource may be defined asthe cash flow forgone ifa unit of the:resource:is used:on the
, ' project:instead.of.in the best:alternative: way.
If. there are:scarcities of resources to be:used on projects (eg labour, materials, machines), then consideration must
be given,to revenues which:could-have been earned from alternative. uses of the:resources.
Shareholders are concerned. with the flows generated. by the whole organisation ‘in. terms -of assessing’ their ডে
impact on their‘wealth A
০ The cash-flows of. a single department-or division cannot:therefore be looked at in isolation. It.is always. the P
cash. flows of the whole:organisation which: must be-considered Tv
৩ For example, 01615101160 labour which.is needed on the-new project-might have:to be:withdrawn from normal 8
production causing’a loss.in-contribution. This is obviously‘relevant to the project appraisal
(|: ~Worked'example:: Relévant cost of material: a
A new contract.requires the:use of. 50 tonnes of:metal ZX.81. This metal.is used-regularly on.all the.firm's projects.
At'the moment there aresin inventory 100 tonnes of ZX.81, which were bought for: CU200 per tonne: The current
purchase price is CU210'per. tonne, and the metal could be.disposed of for net:scrap proceeds of CU.150 per tonne.
With -what.cost:should the new contract be charged for:the:ZX°81?
The ‘use of the ‘material in inventory. for the new contract means that more ZX. 81 must be bought for normal.
workings. The cost to the. organisation is therefore the ‘money spent on purchase, no matter whether’ existing
inventory or:new inventory is used on.the-contract.
Assuming: that the additional ‘purchases are’ made in the:near ‘future, the:relevant 00900 the organisation is current:
purchase price,-ie 50.tonnes’x.CU210 = CU10,500.
ey Interactive question 4; Material with no alternative use [Difficulty level: Intermediate])
ee Suppose the:organisation has no alternative use for the:ZX 811 in-inventory.
"What is'the relevant cost‘of using: it‘on the new‘contract?
See. Answer at the end-of this chapter.
, a Suppose again.there,is no:alternative use for 02:74:81 -other‘than a scrap, sale, but that:there are only:25' tonnes in
' ' inventory.,
See Answer at the end of'this chapter.
! Ay Workedexample: Relevant cost. of labour
A mining operation. uses skilled labour costing CU8: per hour, which generates a contribution of CU6 ‘per-hour,
° after.deducting these labour. costs.
A new project. 1s now being: considered which requires 5,000..hours of Skilled labour: There is ‘a shortage-of*the
required labour. Any'tised on.the-new project must be transferred ‘from normal. working,
What is‘the relevant cost' of using the skilled labour'gn, the-project?
Solution:
What is:lost if the labour‘is transferred from-normal working?
‘Investment appraisal: | 251

CU
Contribution perhour.lost from:normal working. 6
Labour cost per hour which is:not.saved 8
Cash lost per hour.as a result-of the labour transfer 14
The contract: should be:charged with.5,000 x CU14 CU70,000°
Le Facts as'in the previous. Worked example, but there is a surplus’ of skilled-labour. sufficient to-cope with the:new’
project:. The idle workers are-being paid.full wages.
See.Answer at the end of this chapter.
Rosy |; Interactive question 7; Relevant costs [Difficulty level: Intermediate}
; ee | A research ‘project, which. to-date has:cost the company CU150,000, is‘under review.
Tf the project:is allowed to: proceed ‘it -will be completed in approximately one-year, when the.results are to be:sold
to-a government:agency-for.CU300,000.
Shown. below are the:additional expenses which the managing. director‘estimates will.be:necessary to complete the
work:
Materials. This: material.has just: been-purchased at a.cost of CU60,000. It is toxic; if-not’used ‘in. this ‘project, it
must be disposed:of at a cost.of. CU5,000.
Labour. Skilled labour is, hard to recruit:‘The. workers’ concerned were. transferred tothe project from a production
department, and at.a recent’meeting’the production manager claimed that if'these people:were returned to him they
could generate: sales:of CU150,000:in the next year. The prime.cost of these sales would: be CU100;000, including
CU40;000 for the labour cost:itself. The:overhead absorbed into this production would:amount'to CU20,000.
Research staff. It has already been-decided that, when. work on this project:ceases, the research department‘will.be.
closed. Research wages for the year are CU60,000, .and redundancy and severance pay has been estimated. at:
CU15,000 now, or'CU35,000 in one-year's time.
Equipment. The project: utilises a special.microscope which cost CU18,000 three years ago..It has a.residual-value:
of:CU3,000 in another two years and a current disposal value of CU8,000. If:used in the:project‘it is estimated.that:
the.disposal value in one-year's time will be CU6,000.
Share of general building services. The project-is charged. with CU35,000 per annum to cover general building
expénses.. Immediately the project. is discontinued, the space occupied could be'sub-let. for an annual ‘rental of
CU7,000.
Requirement
Advisesthe managing diréctor as to-whether;the project should. be-allowed to proceéd,-explaining:the reasons for the:
treattnent of each item.
(Note: Tgnore:the time value 01 money.)
See Answer 30 the end of'this chapter.
2:5; Deprival value
° _When,an asset’ which is currently owried by the businéss is required for another‘ specific contract/project, the
existing activity'is to be: deprived of that asset. The Value to be used in the-investient. appraisal, is, therefore,
the:asset's deprival: value:
tC fe Worked ‘example: Deprival:-value.
৷ B A company’has a‘printing:press which.needs to be"used On a:new contract.
The préss could be sold for CU1,000.or made use of to service the needs of existing customers for businéss which
has a-value-(in presént'value‘terms) of CU.1;500.
Requirements
% | ‘Financial Management

(a) What.js:the opportunity cost of using the machine on 3:06 coritract?
(b) Ifthe printing press could be-replaced at-a cost of-either.
() ০7800.
(ii) 001,800
What would the relevant:cost:be?
(a) The existing customers create more value than:selling the machine, ’so the:machine would not be:sold.
Hence the:opportunity cost is.the value.in'use‘of 001,500 ও
Note: if the value: in use. ever. dropped below the net realisable value (NRV), then the asset-would. not be A
worth keeping. By
(৮) 0) Ifthe new contract will-make use:of a.currently owned machine thenin ‘principle the cost of using ‘it will v
be'the replacement cost. If the value in. use is CU1,500, ‘and the replacement: cost is CU800, then the চ
machine-will be replaced, The equipment cost.of the-new contract would therefore be:CU800. R
(ii). If however, the replacement cost-is CU1,800 ‘then. it is inot ‘worth-replacing; Thus ‘the ‘relevant cost of
‘equipment‘for theinew contract will be the-opportunity.cost or benefit-forgone — ie the CU1,500, la
In. éach case therefore the-relevant cost’ is the cash flow effect of the-decision:to use the existing resource —
either:the replacement:cost or the benefit'in the.next:best:case,.ié the:deprival value.
This can.be.summarised.as:follows.
Deprival value
--=lowerof ~
Replacement cost and Recoverable amount
ie the.cost of réplacing = higher of
the asset with one of a
similar age and condition Value in use/ and Net realisable
Economic value _ value
ie the present value:of ie the asset's worth if
the cash generated it Were-to be sold,
from using the-asset net of selling costs.
° If the asset has a. net realisable value in excess: of its economic. value it: should be. sold, te it:is better to
discontinue: using it. If ‘the economic value is higher than ‘the net realisable value it is worth: keeping and
using: At this point, therefore; were the firm to be deprived of the asset, the best alternative forgone-is: the.
higher of-the:net realisable-value or economic value (the ‘recoverdble amount')
8 However, if. the recoverable ‘amount is less than the replacement. cost, then the recoverable amount ‘is the
deprival value, ie the asset would not be replaced were the firm.to be deprived of its use. If the recoverable
‘amount exceeds the:replacement cost, the:asset:should 06 replaced as the lattersrepresents its deprival-yalue
eS Sy : Interactive question 8: Deprival:value: [Difficulty level:.Intermediate]
2 Joe's car is not.insured 38811800160,
He bought it‘two ১০৯15 ago for CU2,000. A similar, vehicle: would now cost-CU1,000. He believes-he:could sell the
vehicle for CU1,000 after spending CU100 on.advertising. The vehicle has two years of life remaining, and over
this. period he:believes it will save/him taxi fares with a present-value of:CU800:
‘Investment appraisal: | 2:71

Requirement

What is the loss to Joe if his caris stolen?

See Answer at the end of'this chapter.

3 Taxation.
ঢু) র্‌
y= Section overview
৬৩৫৪0] ০৩ Taxable-profit and accounting profit:may not be the same.
© ‘Tax is charged on net’cash.flow.
° Capital allowances reduce the tax payable.
3.1, Basics

Income statement

Imagine-an income:statement.drawn up‘at.the end of the:first year of a project's life using normal:financial

accounting principles:

: 4 Worked’example: Taxable profit:
CU CU

Sales 10,000:

Materials 1,000

Labour 1,500

Variable‘overheads 500

Fixed overheads
Depreciation 1,000
Other ; 500,

(4,500)
5,500

Interest.on.loan to.finance project (3,000)

Requirement.

In. calculating the taxable. profit for investment appraisal purposes; what are: the relevant: cash flows: to be

considered?

Corporation tax for year | ০1016 project: is not, simply: CU2;500 times: the: tax rate. Some adjustments: need. to be:

made to the profit calculation before computing the tax. charge:

@ = Only‘incremental relevant. cash-flows need be.considered. (as covered.in section 2 above) and the ‘incremental
tax.charge. Thus’ some:of the:above:costs'— eg fixed:costs, may not.be-relevant and therefore.the tax effect of
these:is not.relevant

eo Depreciation should be ignored (it is:not-allowed as:a deduction from. profits: when calculating the: tax — see:
below)

° 61০90810৮10 86181101760. The tax.effect of interest is:incorporated into the cost of capital

9B | ‘Financial Management

Taxation has two’effects in investment appraisal, both:giving rise:to-relevant cash flows.
| \ 8

OUTFLOW INFLOW A
Ti lief র্‌
ax relief
Tax charged . v
given on B
on net cash: ,
assets R
flows ++. রব
purchased ‘via
| 2
ALLOWAN GES (CAs)
3.3. Capital allowances (CAS)'
© This is National.Board of Revenue (NBR) version of.depreciation. For. the purposes of the examination, only
CAs on. plant. and equipment: are- considered (though in ‘practice there: are: other, categories ‘of non-current:
assets that.attract/CAs).
e Unless otherwise stated:
- Calculate writing down allowances (WDAs) at. 18%-:on a reducing balance basis
— There is no WDA.in.the year, of sale; a.balancing allowance/charge is ‘calculated instead. “The balancing
allowance-relieves any unrelieved expenditure; the balancing:charge claws: back-any. excess relief given,
— assume that there are. sufficient profits available.elsewhere in the business to-utilise all tax benefits in
full;and at-once.
3.4. Other assumptions:
০ Although large companies. ‘make. tax: payments in four equal instalmerits during the. accounting. year, for
examination purposes the whole tax payment. is assumed:to:be made at:the end of the-year to which it.relates
e For this study manual purposes unless otherwise stated corporation tax, is assumed, to be paid at 21%
(althou gh other rates are possible in the féal world),
e The tax rate can bé assumed. to be:constant-over the life:of the project-(unlikely in. practice)
০ 10510010 be assumed that working capital flows have _no tax effects
(6) Worked example: Capital allowances
2 Happy Ltd bought a:machine, for CU10,000 on 31 ‘December 20X11, its accounting year, end. The asset. genératéd
= cash.flows of CU7,000 pa. It-sold the.assét on,31 December 20X3 for'CU2,000.
20X1 20K2 20X3
7” 7
Acquired. ‘Disposed,
The company pays’ tax at 21%. Capital allowances are:available.at. 18%.on a reducing balance.basis.
‘Investment appraisal: | 29.

Show'the WDAS and any balancing charge or allowance.
Year éndéd 31 Dec Tax WDV (WDV ='written down value)
20X1 10,000
WDA .@ 18% (800 Asset owned af end of each of 20X11
20X2 8,200, >.and 20X2. .. 18% WDA. calculated
WDA @ 18% (ates
20:03. 6,724 In 20X3 asset sold..A's proceeds (in
Proceeds (2,000) this case) are less than WDV a.
—— balancing allowance‘is given.
Balancing :allowance 4,724
Total reliefs. = CU(1,800+ 1,476 +:4,724) = 'CU8,000 (= cost — scrap). Tax payments, cash flows.etc can then be:
shown.,as-follows:
Tax computation
31 Dec 20X1 31 Dec.20X2 31 Dec 20X3
CU cu cU
Net:inflows 7,000 7,000
WDA/Balancing’ allowance (1,800). (1,476) (4,724)
Taxable: (1,800) 5,524 2,276
Tax '@ 21% 378% (1,160) (478)
* Tax saved, assuming sufficient profits exist. elsewhere in ‘the, business to obtain relief from. WDA as ;soon, as
possible; (section.3.3 above).
Normally ‘the tax effect is:shown as two.separate elements:
37 Dec.20X1 31 Deé 20X2 31 Dec 20X3
cU cu CU
Net:inflows 7,000 7১000
0) Tax'paid @ 21% (1,470) (1,470)
WDAS/Balancing allowance (1,800) (1,476) (4,724)
(2) Tax. saved.-@ 21%* 378 310 992.
Total tax (above):(1) + (2) 378 (1,160) (478)
* ie being able:to deduct the WDA from profit,saves tax @ 21%.
The.NPV calculation would show (rounding to ‘the nearest €U):
31 Dec.20X] 37 Deé 20X2 31176020383
CU CU CU
Net:inflows 7,000 7,000
Tax (1,470) (1,470)
Asget’ purchase (10,000)
Serap 2,000
Tax saved'on WDAs 378 310: 992
Net:CF for discounting (9,622) 5,840 8,522
TS ® “|; Interactive question 9: Capital allowances: (Difficulty, level: Intermediate],
। দু 1. A company buys an asset.for*CU10;000-at the.end of its accounting period, 31 20711061200, to-undertake
- a two-year project.
2 Netttrading inflows at t; and.t, are CU5,000.
30. | ‘Financial Management

ও The asset has a, CU6,900 $180-ঘ816 when itis 01580560-0080016 end of year 2.
4 Tax is‘charged.at.21%. WDAs are available at 18% pa.
Requirement.
Calculate the.net-cash-flows for the project.
See: Answer at the end’of this chapter. ও
— 11
A
ey | Interactive question 10:'Timing issues: (Difficulty, level: Intérniediate]; নু
Le As in Interactive:question:9, except'that the asset:is now bought’on 1 January 20X1. E}
Requirement. দি
Calculate the:net cash-flows for the-project. L
a
See.Answer at the end of this chapter.
yx Section.overview
oe ০ Inflation rate-can be:incorporated into both cash,flow and.discount-rate (‘money @ money’).
০ Inflation can be:ignored in both cash flows-and:discount:rate.(‘real, @ real’).
Inflation Rate in ‘Bangladesh averaged 6.63: percent from 1994 ‘until 2016, reaching an. all-time high of 16.00
percent in September ‘of 201.1 and a record low of -0.03 percent in December of 1996. Consumer prices in
Bangladesh increased. 5.38. percent: year-on-year in November of 2016, following: 5.57 percent growth: ‘in the
previous month.,.As inflation. will continue to exist in the: future; account neéds-to be. ‘taken: of -its effects, 16
increases;in prices, when appraising projects. It creates two:problems in investment: appraisal:
০. Estimating future cash flows — the.rate of inflation. must.be taken into account
e The rate of return required by shateholders. and-lendets will increase.as inflation rises — the discount -fate:is
therefore affected
০ The rates of. interest that would be required in: the absence of inflation 11) 016 economy are referred to, as the
real rates.of interest
@ When-real-rates of interest are’ adjusted for the effect'of general inflation, measured by the consumer prices.
index:(CPI), the.results.are-referred ‘to as money (or.nominal) rates:of interest
| ‘Worked example: Impact of inflation
Kuman is considering.a choice. He can spend CU100 on consumables now or he can‘invest it for-a year, but will
only do.so 1016 can.consume more:of it at’that:time..
The underlying time value.of money for Kuman-is ‘10%,-and inflation is’ 5%.
Requirement
What return in money terms does Kuman require?
‘Investment appraisal: | 53 1|

The total return must compensate 'Kuman. for his: consumption preference ie the. fact that he would prefer to
consume now. .He must therefore earn 10% to reflect his: time value of money. In addition, the: :rate must.
compensate Kuman.for'the fact:that prices are‘rising by'5% pa.
This can be.illustrated.as follows.
Now I'year later
to Underlying: ty
‘Real’ return
required
Consume CU100—_._ —@——_——__—_ CU 110 isthe amount
r= 10% ‘required to-satisfy
the:consumption,
preference.ie.Kuman needs
to be able-to’purchase
10% more:goods
ito 5%:
The iipact of ‘inflation :means that
in order'to be able to purchase: 10%
more. goods; Kuman.needs
CUT10 x 1.05, = CU115.50
In, order to be satisfied with not-consuming now,.Kuman needs CU115.50 of money ina ‘year
CU100. x (1.10)(1.05) = CUI15.50
Overall money return (m) required = নস 15.5%
Money'rates, real rates and general inflation: (CPI).are linked by the following:
(1 -#:m) 501,770 কন)
where m. = ‘money rate
r = real rate
i = general inflation.
Thus in.the:example.above
(1 +:m) = (1.10):(1.05):= 1.155,
‘m = 15:5%
4.2: Money‘and current cashflows:
AS examination. questions are normally answered using’ the money. ‘method. (see. section 4.4 bélow) ‘it is vital. to
determine whether the:cash:flows পাও given;in. money Or'current terms.
° Money (or nominal). cash flows’ are: cash flows’ where: any inflationary. effects have already. been taken into
‘account
° Current cash flows are cash flows expressed in today's terms which-will be affected by inflation.in the future
and have not yet been-adjusted.
4.3, General and specific inflation.rates
It:is also important:in examination:questions to. determine what sort of-inflation:rate is:applicable'to the items in the
question.
° A general ‘inflation ‘rate: is a weighted average of many specific inflation rates, eg CPI,,and is: normally
applied to the-real rate:in order'to. derive the:money rate’ (section 4:1. aboye)
£39) | ‘Financial Management

০ A specific inflation rate is, the rate of inflationon an individual ttem, or, service, eg the rate at which labour
‘costs per hour will increase
9 Examples:
Individual item Specific inflation
Bread. 1% pa
Milk. 3% pa ৷ CPlis a weighted average:of these rates
Cheese 2% 03.
etc.. ও
FA)
e Economic ‘forecasters ‘will, regularly publish estimates of’ general inflation. Estimating individual. rates is P
much:more difficult, and decision makers should recognise that they-are just that — estimates, and:subject to a Tv
degree of error E}
R
4.4 Discounting
a B
Money. method (‘money @ money‘)
Tt: is. essential to match: like with like when. performing NPV calculations. In. the:real world money flows are: the
easiest to-deal with as they are:the everyday flows'people are used ‘to. So.to'use the:money method:
০ Adjust :the ‘individual ‘cash flows, eg. sales/revenue, materials; labour using their specific inflation :rates to
convert.to money cash flows;.ie:the flows which.will actually occur’
০ Discountithese money flows using the money rate,,ie-the-rate of-interést' which will actually occur.
This is‘the.simplest technique. Use wherever'possible unless.a question directs otherwise.
Real method (‘real @ real’)
An alternative way of reaching: the: same NPV and again ‘matching. like with like, is to use the real method. The
problem with this ‘method is ‘that:real. cash flows and. interest rates are ‘not. directly identifiable ‘in the way: that
money flows and ratés are. For example, banks regularly publish money interest rates on savings accounts,
overdrafts, etc. The unpublished real. rate needs to be derived by stripping: out. the. general. inflation used to
determine the:money rate (as“in section 4.1 above). So to use the real:method:
০ —_Reinove the-effects of genéral.inflation ‘from:money cash flows to generate-real cash flows
০ Discount using: real rate.
Although this:achieves the:same NPV as:the money ‘method, it is often-very long‘winded.and would.only be‘useful
in a.question' where the:real flows and-interest:rate were already given.
, oy ) Interactive question 11: Money @ money: (Difficulty level: Intermediate]|
, we Project: Invest-CU 10,000 at tp in. new plant and equipment.
Returns CU5,000 pa in current-.terms for'three: years, inflating.at'7% pa
Money rate of ‘interest is 10%
Requirement
Calculate the: project's NPV using ‘the money method..
See Answer af the end of'this chapter.
Effective method.
‘Investment appraisal: | 53 3)

০ This method. can, sometimes: be: a short cut, for the: money method, eg for long projects ‘with -annuity ‘or
perpetuity ‘cash:flows

° To use‘the effective:methodleave:cash.flows:in current (to) terms and adjust the discount: rate:as shown below
to‘incorporate both inflating and :discounting

০ Discount:current:terms cash flows using effective:rate (6):

1m
J +E =~
1+i,
wherei,:=-inflation, specific to.given.cash‘flow
| Interactive question’12:.Effective.rate’ [Difficalty level! 18191601310]
। দু | Labour costs inflate 31/8% pa in perpetuity
' Money fate = 10%

Labour. éurrently.costs CU10,000.in'ty terms

Requirement.

Calculate the present value of labour-costs.

See Answer at the end of'this chapter.

4.5: Practical considerations:

ও General inflation may not be constant, thus the ‘money discount rate ‘may vary year on ‘year: In’ order to
discount. ‘cash: flows with. a different ‘money interest: rate in. each year, the money @- money approach
discussed above:should be‘used

© The impact of‘inflation.is more’ significant for longer periods as the“increase in:prices:is compounded year-on
year. However, as. noted-earlier, the.further into the:future’the more.difficult it isto. estimate:specific inflation
rates, sO:errors‘in: estimates will be compounded

4.6 NPV proforma
The following proforma:summarises the topics dealt with so far and provides a layout for. NPV calculations useful
in.95%:+- of situations:
td tl 2. 3
CU cU CU CU.
Operating cash. flows
Adjust for inflation | Sales/revenue x, X. x
Include.only:relevant-cash flows Costs: (X) (X) (X)

Net x, X. x

Tax (X) (X) (X)

Asset’

Purchase (X)
‘Scrap x
Taxon WDAS x x x x

Working capital (X) (X) (X) x

Net.flows (X) x, x x

* Discount.factor 1 x x x

‘PV of.cash.flows (X) Xx x x
ZPY = NPV
* Use-discount.factors for the:after-tax. cost:of capital,
341 | ‘Financial Management

5: Replacement analysis:
v= Section.overview
oH ০ The-optimal:replacement:cycle is the, one with the:-lowest,equivalent:annual cost.
০ The analysis assumes the:replacement decision will-apply-indefinitely.
০. 150 far it:has' been assumed that“investment in ‘an.asset is: a.one-off decision. However, a project is likely to
‘involve:commitment to long-term production, and machinery. will therefore 11660 00 be replaced
e 4 business.needs to know. how often to replace such assets. Replacing after a long time-means,not:teplacing ও
as-often, so delaying:the:cost ০8 new-replacement machine. However'this invariably means keeping an asset. 1
whose value is:déélining:and which costs moreito maintain. 10636-00308; 8110 benefits need-to be balanced. A
. —
(নল Worked'example: Replacement decision: v
A deéision has to be niade: on réplacement policy for vans. A. van.costs CU12,000, Vans:can’ be replaced after 1,2, R
===" _~—soof'3 years. The following:additional. information applies:
Interval between Trade-in Age-at Maintenance cost: fa
replacement: allowance ‘Year end; paid at end.of year
(years) CU (years) CU
1 9,000, Year of replacement Nil
2 7,500, 1 2,000
3 7,000, 2 3,000
Calculate the optimal.replacement policy at a cost of. capital iof 15%: There are-no maintenance:costs ifthe van is
replaced after one year. Ignore taxation and. inflation.
NPVs
1. year-cycle NPV'=.(12,000) + — =CU(4,174)
2 yearcycle — NPV'= (12,000) + 22209) 7,500 = CU(8;068)
1.15. 1.15
3 year.cycle NPV = (12,000) + (2,000) + 8,000) + 7,000. = CU(I1,405)
a 1.15 1.15 1.15
These ‘costs:are not. comparable, because they'refer to.different time periods. The reason.the:one year. cycle:appears
cheaper is: because it only. reflects the:cost of having a machine for one year, whereas the CU1.1,405 for the 3 year
cycle is the cost to the business. of. keeping the: resource ‘for. three years. There are two ‘possible approaches. to
making the:costs.comparable.
Onemethod of comparing the different'replacément options:is to evaluate the costs over a time frame which makes
them consistent:
In, the above exairiple, this will be achieved if the:costs incurred under’each, cycle wére compared over the sanie
number of years'for each.
For example:
I Year 2 Year 3\Year
Time cycle cycle cycle
CUu'000 CU'000 CU'000
0 (12). (12) (12)
‘Investment appraisal: | 535}

1 9+ (12), (2) (2)
2 9+(12) 7.5 +(12) (3)
3 9 + (12) (2) 7+ (12)
4 9 + (12) 7.5 + (12) (2)
5 9 + (12). (2) @)
6: 9 75 7
In.order'to be comparable, the analysis has ‘to be continued for six years (the lowest.common multiple of. the asset’
lives). Stopping before this:means' one 0016 options would be part way through a:cycle. At the:end of-six.years ‘is
the: earliest occasion that all three cycles come to an end at the same time (ie‘a ‘new ‘van is required‘under each
cycle).. The: lowest: common ‘multiple approach: will, give a solution, but is rather long’ winded. The Equivalent.
Annual Cost‘approach:is a better method, ‘and is discussed ‘below.
5:2, Equivalent annual cost:(EAC),
In,Management Information, the method for finding ‘the present value of an annuity Was introduced,
PV of an annuity = Annuity x.Annuity Factor (AF) for n‘periods:at ‘a-discountirate r
This can'be applied here to restate the present value of the:costs over a life cycle into an annuity’—. the equivalent,
annual cost —over the life-cycle;:as follows:
The NPVs calculated above are converted into equivalent. annual costs, ie: the. equivalent constant annual sum
payable at:the end.of.each year: for.any given-cycle.
The equivalent annual.costs can be compared.
1. year:cycle (4,174):=X'x.AF 1 year @ 15%
(4,174) = Xx 0.870,
X = CU(4,798)
2 year cycle (8,068):=X.x:AF 2years @ 15%
(8,068) = X°x 1.626
X = CU(4,962)
3 year cycle (11,405)-="K"x: AF 3-years @ 15%
(11,405).= K°x:2.283
X = CU(4,996)
Thus it:is cheapest.to replace the vans every year; because this:cycle has the:lowest.cost in NPV terms.,
So-the method can be summarised as:
না Calculate the.NPV of each.replacement strategy
2 Calculate the-annual equivalent cost.of.the NPV for each strategy.
ও Choose the strategy’with-the lowest annual equivalent:cost.
ry) | Interactive question'13: Réplacement cycle’ [Difficulty 1ével: Intermediate];
নু A machine costs:‘CU20,000 3110 it can be.replaced ‘every year or every two years. Delaying the.replacement causes
the:running costs to increase and the;scrap proceeds to decrease-as follows:
Running-costs Scrap'proceeds:
CU CU
Year 1. 5,000 16,000
Year 2 5,500 13,000
Company's cost.of capital-= 10%.
£36) | ‘Financial Management

Requirement
Should .the machine ’be:replaced every one or every two. years?
See Answer at the énd of this chapter.
5.3, Limitations of the:replacement:analysis performed:
This method ‘assumes that a-firm is continually replacing like with like,, and therefore determines a once-and-for-all
optimal.replacement cycle. In practice this‘is unlikely'to’be-valid-due to:
° Changing technology, which can quickly make machines obsolete and shorten replacement, cycles. This ডে
means that one asset isnot being replaced. by:one-exactly similar A
» Inflation, which by altering’ the cost ‘structure of assets means that the optimal replacement cycle can vary P
over time v
Ee
© ‘If inflation affects:all variables equally it is: best excluded .from.the analysis by discounting real. cash flows at R
a.real,interest rate — the optimal replacement:cycle will remain valid.
°° Differential:inflationirates mean that the optimal.replacement cycle‘varies over'time [2
০ —-_ The effects:of taxation (ignored in the:analysis: but.they could be incorporated)
০ The fact that:production is unlikely to continué‘in perpetuity
6 Capital rationing
Section overview
ES
e Scarce capital means that. projects have. to be ranked according to how efficiently they use the limiting
factor.
e _Divisiblé-projects ate ranked-using’NPV ‘per CU of scarce:capital.
e Indivisible projects are ranked ‘using trial and error by, finding the combination of projects: that maximises
NPV.
(8 Definition:
ae Capital ‘rationing .is,the situation, wheré insufficient funds:exist-to undertake all positive. NPV projects, so.a choice
° must be made between projects.
6.1, Two'types‘of rationing:
° Hard rationing: where the-external-capital market (banks, stock exchange,-etc) limit'the supply of funds
° Soft rationing: where internally:the firm imposes :its: own constraint:on the:amount of funds:raised. This may
be as:a surrogate for,other constraints, eg.insufficient managerial capacity to handle all positive NPV projects
Soft rationing may also arise where it:is impractical for the firm to:go.to the market’and raise:a small amount
of:finance,,and where raising the funds:in.large:-amounts:is more practical and cost-effective.
62. Single period rationing:
When. funds. are scarce inone year-only; but:freely available:otherwise, the basic NPV approach.to.project:selection
is modified.
Projects, are ranked by NPV per CU’ capital outlay in ‘the rationed. period. (This can. ‘be ‘referred to ‘as 016.
‘profitability index!.) This-is an.extension, of key-factor, analysis covered at the knowledge. level of the:professional
stage.examinations.
The situation where funds: are rationed in more: than one time: period. (multi-period ‘capital rationing) is beyond the
syllabus.
‘Investment appraisal: | 37)

Ss <j; Interactive question’ 14: Capital rationing (Difficulty level: Intermediate]
, Le A business has CU50,000'available at ty for:investment.
: Four divisible projects are available:
Project NPY Funds required at te
CU CU
A 100,000 0,000)
B (50,000) (10,000)
Cc 84,000 (10,000)
D 45,000 (15,000)
38] | ‘Financial Management

Requirement
Which project(s) should be undertaken?
See Answer at the end of'this chapter.
6.3. Indivisible projects
The solution to Interactive. question ‘14 assumes ‘it is possible. to accept. half of project A, ie that projects are:
perfectly divisible so half the outlay gives half the NPV, etc. C}
In-reality: projects: may be indivisible,-ie all 01110001118, in which.case trial.and error. is.necessary to find 016 optimal EA)
combination. A
In. Interactive question 14 above, possible combinations are: দু
NPV Funds’ cE}
CU cu R
A 100,000 50,000
C and D 129,000 25,000 L
Therefore choose G-and D..
64 Mutually-exclusive:projects:
It may be ‘the case that projects are mutually exclusive, ié it is not possible to undertake both, at the same: time,
perhaps because managenient would’be overstretched in-trying to,run both projects.
Imagine. that,a firm facing single period capital, rationing:is trying to:choose between.five:projects —.P, Q, R, S and
T..P and Q are. mutually exclusive, ie:either P or Q but not both could be-undertaken. Tn-order to-make the choice it.
should-apply the procedures in sections 6.2:or 6.3 above to two separate, groupings
P, R, 8, T. Q; R,. S, T
and-see which produces ‘the highier overall. NPV.
6.5: Project’synergy
So far‘projects:have been.considered-independently. It may be the case that by undertaking certain combinations. of
projects, some synergy (extra. NPV)-is created, eg:from-cost:savings.
[নু Interactive question’ 15:.Project synergy [Difficulty level:. Intermediate]
৷ 2 A firm has:CU100,000 available for investment at to.
Three divisible projects are-available:
Project NPV. Funds:required at to
CU CU
Xx, 25,000 100,000
Y 11,000 50,000
নে 8,000 40,000
If Y-and Z-were undertaken.together, an:extra'CU4,400 of NPV could be:earned.
Requirement
Which ‘project(s) should be undertaken?
‘Investment appraisal: | 39)

See Answer at the énd of this chapter.
‘7 Investment appraisal in‘a strategic. context
2 e .
yee Section overview
eee
Wee 6 ~_sTinvestment appraisal needs to: be.considered in a:strategic:context
০ Shareholder value: analysis (১৬/) focuses.on decisions which.maximise shareholder wealth
° Investment, may give rise‘to:new opportunities, known as real_options.
7.1, Project generation, decision making and.control
Investment projects will normally be: identified. as part of a firm's ‘strategic: planning. process.. This ‘is covered in
detail.in-the.Business:Strategy paper. .In outline the:process.is as follows:
Analyse the current postion ofthe business by examining
theiexternal (eg competitors) and internal (eg human
resources) environment. Normally summarised by SWOT
analysis (strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, threats)
Determine mission and objectives (here
assumed to be wealth maximisation)
Identify and ‘select strategies'(eg
new products, new markets, etc)
Implement and control
° Once potential projects are identified,-eg replacing an existing product with a:new one; the.relevant;costs and.
revenues 35৪০০184090 with the proposal must.be-determined. Care must be taken.to avoid bias.in estimates, eg
from managers Closely associated with the: proposal
© The relevant‘costs:and revenues should.be.assessed.using NP-V to.determine: whether wealth increases. Where
there are competing projects, those that offer the best: NPV should. be chosen (capital.rationing. may need to
be considered at this point)
° Chosen projects are;then implemented .and performance monitored, eg-actual outcomes v'budget-etc
7.2. Shareholder value analysis
(GAA] Definition
AL Shareholder valué’analysis (SVA) is the:process of analysing ‘the activities Of .a business to identify how they-will,
result-in:increasing shareholder-wealth.
ay | ‘Financial Management

Managers may sometimes be influenced ‘to 3০0 in, a. mannér which is inconsistent With maximising shareholder
wealth. The claimed advantage of SV-A, as a philosophy of business decision-making, is that the actions of
managers can.be directly linked.to value .generation:and the outcomes of decisions can.be-assessed.in that context,

C= HI Interactive:question:16:,SVA‘ (Difficulty level: Easy]

। Le Explain what possible problems are created ‘when: using the:following measures to assess:management

~ effectiveness..
Return on capital employed
Earning’ perishare @
See Answer at the énd of this chapter. Fa
2.3: The principles-of SVA T
A business.has a. particular value: at a particular time: because of the projected cash flows. from its activities. The E}
particular value: will be: based on their timings and_riskiness..According to the philosophy-of SVA, the value of the R
business is affected or ‘driven! by just seven factors, known as: 'value:drivers!. To:increase the: value:of the business,
ie to: generate additional value, one:or more of these-seven will ‘need. to alter.in a:favourable direction. The value —
drivers, and their effection shareholder value, are:;shown below. |
Cost. 'Life of Sales
of projected growth:
capital cash flows rate:
‘Investment Operatin
বা Sharahol¢er Pere
in working : profit
capital WRAL margin.
Investment ,
‘in non- Corporation
current tax’ rate
_ assets
These seven factors all impact on the operating ‘cash flows, and through them the value of ‘the business and, the
wealth of the shareholders.
‘Investment appraisal: | গর

These will be éxamined:in‘turn, and related to individual, parts 01016 business.

Sales growth ‘If a greater level of sales can be. generated in,the future than, was:expected, this should create

rate ‘more cash ‘flows and, therefore, value: ‘The: greater level of sales :could come ‘from. a new
‘product and, provided, that this did not have an adverse effect on one of. the other value
drivers, greater value would:necessarily be created. Similarly, arresting-an,expected decline in
sales levels for-some existing product-has the-potential to generate value.

Operating profit ‘The operating profit. margin. is: the ratio of ‘net ‘profit, before financing charges'‘and tax, to

margin: sales. The higher this ratio the more cash flows: there are for each sale. Thus if costs can be
controlled :more effectively, more cash. will tend to. flow from each sale ‘and ‘value ‘will. be
enhanced.

Corporation‘tax: This clearly affects cash flows and value because, broadly, tax.is levied directly-on operating

rate cash’ flows, Management's ‘ability to affect the tax rate and. the: amount. of tax. paid by the
business‘tends, at:best, to be: marginal.

Investment;in Normally cash ‘has, to be spent on additional ‘non-current assets. in order to enhance

non-current shareholder value. Wherever. managers can find ways of reducing the: outlay on plant etc

assets: ‘without limiting the effectiveness of the business, this;will tend to enhance.shareholder value.

Investment.in Nearly“all business activities, give:rise to-a need for-working ‘capital: ‘inventories, receivables,

working capital payables and cash. Amounts tied’up in.working capital can be considerable. Steps that can be
taken, for example, to encourage trade receivables to pay more quickly than expected, will
bring. cash flows forward and tend to: generate: ‘value, as long.:as the benefits. of quicker
‘payment outweigh the cost of-delivering:it.

Cost of capital The: cost of funds used. to: finance the. activities of the business will ‘typically be a major
determinant of-shareholder value. So.if the business can:find alternative, cheaper, sources of
Jong-term.finance,, value. would tend to be.enhanced.

Life of projected Clearly, the longer that the life of any cash generating: activity can continue, the ‘longer. its

cash:flows ‘potential to.generate value.

7.4 How.can SVA-be.used?:
Where SVA is seen to be most useful is in highlighting the key drivers of value. This, enables managers to éét.
targets, for achieving. value enhancing strategies ‘in, each, area. It can: help to create an environment where, value
enhancement.is at-the top of the agenda;for, managers in all areas of:the business. Ti this way the-primary financial
objective of the business can.be achieved. SV.A can also’be used to value a business.(seé-chapter 8).
7.5. Real'options;
One problem of NPV 31131915118 that it only considers cash flows related directly‘to-the project. 1008 possible that-a
project’with a,negative NPV is accepted for ‘strategic’ reasons. This is because management accept’that there are
options associated witha particular project-which outweigh the:conventionally calculatéd negative NPV..
The reviséd.decision model becomes:
Project worth.= Traditional: NPV + 'value:of any options
Worked’éxample::Real options
|
|
Follow:on options Launching this project would give a later, opportunity to
oo. oo, oo ; _ launch.a.second.(and.third and so-on) version, which could be

A firm is considering, investing in, a project to highly profitable-or could lose-money.

manufacture ;microcomputers. The initial NPV’ is ‘

negative. Launching the: first version, effectively gives the..right, to

invest .in,later versions. The nght to invest.or buy is known-as
a.call option.

Abandonment options Both projects:offer the.right'to abandon the ‘project if things

42) | ‘Financial. Management

A: firm is considering investing ‘in two projects, 8° Wong. by. selling the assets. ‘The ‘value of the second
both having the same expected NPV. The first option is) much greater and. could well be ‘preferred by.
uses a highly’speciiilised machine: with.little.resale TM4nagement.
value or alternative use. The second involves pe right'to sell is. known as a put option..
expenditure.mainly-on highly. marketable land and
buildings. Some projects such as those ‘in. the:natural resource ‘industry.
(timber, mining etc) have inbuilt options to reduce’ capacity
or suspend operations temporarily.
Timing options Projects where commencement can ‘be delayed are often :
; attractive. In.a volatile markeét.a project that-can ‘be-delayed.is A
A firm has the:development-rights over a piece of. {ike a call option with a jong: period of expiry..If the:company P
land. The :rights can be exercised any time over, ¢an delay investment,it can wait and seé-what:happéns tothe T
the-next five years. market before investing or not: (exercising the: Option, 01110. Ee}
The longer the delay, the;more valuable the-option. R
The option to delay is-only valuable if it-offsets. any loss from
delaying eg: delaying results: in a competitor. establishing a —
loyal Gustomer'‘baée'that;makes 10010001001 the company to Q
enter later, Patents, and other barriers to, entry -can offer some
protection, against this.
Growth options’ Choices imight include
New technology, deregulation etc present © ‘Full-investrment-and hope it pays off (high risk)
uncertain growth, -opportunities for firms. — ১ | | নার
investing:could produce substantial losses. e Waitand see but competitors might take a lead.
° Acquire ‘growth option’:
Growth.options include
e Start with small capacity, expanding later. if market
conditions are: good
e Joint. ventures and strategic ‘alliances as entry strategies
into emerging markets, eg China
e R&D avoiding 'wait and see’ ‘risk and, if prospects look
‘poor, no full.investment, eg‘pharmaccutical. companies
০. Follow-on options:noted above
Flexibility options: A more expensive station capable of using. gas or. coal or-oil
oo gives’ greater. flexibility. This flexibility option has a value
A power Station could be constructed to generate which must’be included in‘the evaluation.
electricity. using only gas as the input fuel. Whilst
this. might be the cheapest option it lacks
flexibility:in the face-of volatile gas prices,
The above refers to options associated with investments — so called ‘real" options.:Chapters.9 and ‘10 will introduce
how options to ‘buy and sell currency, ‘shares, bonds, etc can be used to manage risks such as interest ‘rates and
exchange rates.
8 Investing overseas
WES Section overview
১১ ০ Overseas.investment carries additional risks, including political.and cultural.
° The ‘methods of. financing overseas subsidiaries will depend on the Jength of investment period envisaged,
‘Investment appraisal: | &

also, the local’finance:costs, taxation systems and,restrictions:on dividend remittances.

When, deciding what types of, country a company. should enter 01 terrns of environmental factors, economic

development, language used, cultural similarities and. so on), the major criteria for ‘this decision should be .as

follows..

(a) Market attractiveness. This Concerns such indicators as.GNP/head and forecast-demand,

(b) Competitive advantage. This is principally dependent. on prior. experience ‘in. similar markets. and having a
cultural understanding.

(c) Risk. This involves an analysis of political ‘stability, the possibility of government intervention and similar
external_influences.

8.1, Political risks
=| Definition:
ae Political risk:is the risk that:political action will affect the position and.value of a, company.

When a multinational, company invésts in another country, ég by setting:up.a subsidiary, it may face-a political risk

of. action by that-country's government which restricts the .multinational's.freedom-’

If a government ‘tries to prevent the. exploitation of its, country: by multinationals, it.:may take. various measures,

including the.following:

Quotas: Import:quotas could be used 'to‘limit:the quantities:of goods that a subsidiary can buy. from its
parent:company:and import‘for resale in its domestic:markets.

Tariffs Import tariffs. could make imports. (suchas from parent’ companies) more expensive and
domestically produced goods therefore more competitive.

Non-tariff Legal standards.of safety or, quality (non-tariff barriers) could be imposed on:imported goods

barriers to. prevent multinationals from selling goods’through,a subsidiary: which have been banned.as
dangerous in.other. countries.

Restrictions: .A government could. restrict. the ability of foreign companies to buy domestic: companies,
especially those that operate in politically sensitive: industries such as defence: contracting,
communications, energy'supply and.so on.

Nationalisation A, govérnment could nationalise foreign-owned companies and their assets (with, or without
comipensation tothe parent:company).

Minimum .A.government:could.insist-on:a minimum:shareholding:in;companies by residents. This would

shareholding ‘force a :multinational, to offer some. of the: equity in-a subsidiary’to investors in ‘the country
‘where the-subsidiary- operates.

‘8.1.1, ‘Assessment of. political‘risk:
There are a large:number of factors that can be taken:into account: when.assessing political, risk, for example:
০ Government:stability
e —_ Political and, business;ethics
© ‘Economic stability/inflation
e —_ Degree of international. indebtedness
০ Financial infrastructure
9 Level of import-restrictions
০ Remittance restrictions.
e Evidence of-expropriation
e —_ Existénée of special taxes and regulations on, overseas investors, or investinent incentives
&4 | ‘Financial Management

In, addition, micro factors, factors only affecting the company or the industry in which, it invests, may be more
significant‘than macro ‘factors, particularly:in.companies suchas hi-tech organisations.
‘8.1.2: ‘Dealing with political'risks
There are various strategies that:multinational.companies.can adopt to limit the effects of. political risk.
Negotiations'with The aim of these negotiations ‘is generally to obtain a concession agreement. ‘This’ would
host government cover matters ‘such as the transfer of. capital,.:remittances and products, access to local
finance, government intervention.and taxation, and.transfer: pricing.
Insurance In Bangladesh Government has introduced Export ‘Credit: Guarantee Schemes (ECGS) to
deal ‘with. credit risks associated. with the: export: trade ECGS provides protection against. C
various threats:including-nationalisation, currency conversion problems, wariand revolution. 0
See’ Chapter 10 where overseas trade.is explored. A
Production Itmay be-necessary to strike a balance betwéen, contracting dut to local sources (thus losing P
strategies control) and. prodticing. diréctly (which: 11017685685 the investment and hence ‘increasés ‘the T
potential loss). Alternatively it may be better to. locate key parts of the production, process or B
the distribution channels abroad, Control of patents is:another possibility, since.these can be R
enforced.internationally.
Management Possible methods, include joint ventures or ceding control ‘to local investors, and, obtaining
structure profits. by:a management:contract. P
‘Investment appraisal: | 68

8:2: Cultural-risk:

The following:areas may be particularly important depending upon 11610080010, of the Overseas investment:

(a) The cultures and practices of customers and.consumers:in‘individual markets

(b) The media and distribution systems.in overseas markets

(c) The different; ways of doing business.in overseas markets

(d) The degree to which ‘national cultural differences: matter for. the. product’ concerned (a. great deal for some
consumer products, eg. washing ‘machines ‘where ‘some. countries. prefer front-loading machines and others
prefer'top-loading machines, but less’ so.for‘products*such as gas turbines)

‘8.3; Factors influencing the choice of finance for an overseas subsidiary

In:determining how an,overseas;investment;should be financed, thé following. considerations need.to bé. made:

(a) The local finance costs, and any subsidies which“may be available

(b) Taxation systems of the ‘countries in. which the: subsidiary’ is operating. Different tax: rates can favour
borrowing in, high, tax regimes, and no borrowing elsewhere. Tax-saving:opportunities may. be maximised by
structuring the:group and its subsidiaries. in such a:way 8900 take:the best,advantage:of the:different local tax
systems

(¢) Anjy restrictions on, dividend remittances

(0) The possibility of flexibility‘in-repayments which:may arise from the parent/subsidiary relationship

(e) Access to capital. Obtaining’ capital, from foreign ‘markets may increase liquidity, lower :costs and make it
easier to maintain-optimum gearing

£6 | ‘Financial Management

Summary,
ডে
ল। | ঢা)
a fi owzdolwelperformy A
RP
| ট্যাপ] | T
cE
তা - | R
investment in Fir? ~\ “f Wiredkar i @Replacementianalysis |
9০৭7০০০51০4 Howsoftenjshould)plant:and| —
techniques pyvhich{cashiflows) | ০9107069759 56951 Q
Payback Fshould|beyincluded? F “ S 4 Hee cquivalent-annuali costly 1
ARR i | | .
NEV]
4 _., f Setaarexhitexs -lo Eea@aawen | | Withdbeuenrt | |e
: | = WV orkingicapital take) neticashflow, = RA@RA limiting factorganalysis
aR Gapital allowances) Ml Kemoney,@ Money Ml Remmindivisiblesjusestrial
32791500219 mil wa Opportunitycosts:andy liza Ao Don A:
nextibestiuse} a nn
চে Deprivalivaluews 4
‘Investment appraisal: | &y

Answer the following questions.

1. A company is considering investing in a two-year project. Machine: set-up costs’ will be CU150,000 payable.
immediately: Working. capital of CU4,000 is required at the. beginning. of the-contract and. will’be‘released at:
the-end.

Given.a cost:of:capital of 10%, what is the. minimum, acceptable:contract price to be received at the end.of the
contract?

2 A company:is consideting investing-CU520,000 in machinery'to manufacture a,new product. The machinery
has a lifetime of'five-years and will be-depreciated.on-a straight-line:basis to its. scrap value of.CU20,000,. The
new product will produce annual income of CU350,000, receivable-annually in, arrears.. Variable production,
costs, payable annually-in advance, amount to CU100,000 per annum. Fixed costs, other than depreciation,
will increase by CU10,000 per annum, payable-in arrears..

What (to the nearest’ CU1,000).is the net present value of the proposal discounting at 15%?

3 A project has a life-of three years..In the-first year itis expected to generate sales of CU200,000; increasing:at,
the:rate of 10% per annum over the remaining two years. At:the start:of each, year-working capital is required
equal,to.10%:of the-sales revenue for that-year. All working capital,will be released _at the end of the project:
What. is the net ‘present value (to the: nearest’ CU000) of ‘the working capital cash flows of the: project:
discounting ata rate:of 20%?

4 Allen.Ltd wishes to use a machine for one: month on a new contract. The machine.cost CU120;000 six-years
ago. When purchased it had an estimated life of ten. years. and 1015 being fully depreciated using the straight
line method. It:is currently valued. at CU39,000 and its estimated. value at the end of the year is CU15,000.
The ‘machine is under-used and stands idle for perhaps: 30% ofits time, but it must: be retained. for use: on
similar contracts.

What-is the rélevarit.cost.of using-the machine on the:new contract?

5 A company is. considering undertaking project X which will require 100 kg of a ‘special material ৫. The.
company has ‘100 kg. of Q.in inventory but there’ is no possibility of obtaining any more: If project X.is not
undertaken, then:the company can undertake project Y which. will also:require’ 100 kg of Q. The revenues and
costs-associated with project Y are as.follows:

Project Y revenues and costs:
CU CU

Revenues. 10,000
Less:Costs
Original purchase cost of 100 kg ০6৫ 3,000
Other direct costs 5,000

(8,000)
Profit 2,000
The 100:kg: of Q.can also be:sold as it is for CU4,000. What is the:relevant cost.of using 100 kg-of Q when,
deciding whether to accept project.X?

6 Sarkis tendering for contract.M. The cost estimate-includes CU2,750, the price: paid for'100 units of ‘part-KL.
These are currently held in inventory and. will not be-required for any. other future jobs. However, if CU75
Were -spént off their conversion, they could be: used on other work as substitutes for 100. units of part “XB.
These would otherwise:have to be bought in ‘at a-cost of CU22 each. Alternatively,:the KL ‘parts-could be sold
for:CU20, each.

Given that ‘Sark's objective is to maximise its net. cash inflow, what. figure should be included in the cost
estimate in respect:of part-KL?
48} | ‘Financial Management

7 Sherburn Ltd has sufficient: material Y in, inventory for a year's production of 'Stringfree', Material Y cost:
CU8,000 but.is subject to:major ‘price ‘variations; the current market'valu is double the original cost. It could
be sold at the market price less 15% selling expenses. An-alternative is to‘retain it for later use-by:which time
the'market price-is expected to be CU11,200.
What.is the relevant.cost:of-using:material ‘Y on the-Stringfree’contract?
8 2 company jis about to quote a price. for manufacturing a special, machine which will require. 1,500: kg 01
material,X and 2,000.kg-of material Y. The following-information.is available about-these resources:
‘Original-cost
Type of Amount in. price of inventory Current purchase Net realisable. ৪
material inventory now perkg price per kg. ‘value-now per kg “4
kg. CU CU CU A
xX 1,000 5 6 4 P
Y 2,000 8 10: 7 u
The:inventory of. X cannot be used. by the company for any other purpose; material Y. is used frequently by R
the company.
What.is the relevant.cost:of:the materials for the.manufacture:of the special. machine? | [21
9 The following data relate.to.200 kg of-material ZX যা) inventory and:needed immediately for. a contract:
CU
Standard cost: 2,300
Replacement:cost 2,200,
Realisable value 2,000
Within the firm the: 200-kg of:material ‘ZX can be converted into 200 kg:of material RP at-a ০০১০1 CU100.
‘Material. RP ‘has: many-uses'in the firm, and.200 kg cost:CU2,200.
What.cost:-should be:included for material. ZX when assessing thé viability of the-contract?
10 The following.data-relate.to material-held.in:inventory and needed ‘immediately for a contract:
CU
Replacement:cost 4,000
Realisable value 3,900
Storageicosts:for. this quantity for one month 200
There will be: no altérnative use for this material until one month later when, the: replacement: cost-will be
CU4,300.
What-cost‘should be:included for the material when assessing the viability of the contract?
11. The following data apply to‘a.non-current-asset:
CU.
Netirealisable valu ‘5,000
Historic: cost 6,000
Net’present. value in.use 7,500.
Replacement.cost 10,000.
What‘is the deprival-value?
12 In the-recently prepared annual. accounts of Evy, closing’ inventory, of. finished. goods includes CU4,800 for
item.X, calculated-as follows:
CU
Materials at cost. 1,800.
Direct. labour 2,000
Production, overhead:
‘Investment appraisal: | &

‘Variable with labour. cost 400

Fixed 600
Factorycost of producing-item.X. 4,800
Soon after the ‘year’ end item X was stolen and ‘the management: wishes to. know ‘its deprival value, A
replacement could be ‘made. during normal. working hours a8 Evy has ‘Spare capacity. Labour is paid on. the
basis of hours worked. The cost:of replacement would be as in the’ schedule: above except-for. materials, the
replacement cost of which:is now CU2;200: ‘The:item sells. for: 007,000,
What‘is the deprival-value-of item X?

13 Jn order to manufactiiré a néw product a fitm néeds two matérials, ও. arid T., Theré are ample quantities: of
both, in, inventory. S$ is Commonly uséd within the business, whereas T is now no longer ‘used for, other
products. Relevant information for the-two types of material is as.follows:

Material Quantity per‘unit ‘Original-cost Replacement cost Scrap value.
ke নো CUlkg CUlkg:
ও 2 2.40 4.20 1.80
T 3 1.00. 1.40 0.40.
‘What:is the opportunity cost’of' materials to: be-used:in making one-unit.of:the new product?
14 Jason Ltd'makes’a' product,.the Elke, which.sells:for.CU35. Its standard cost'is made up as follows:
cu
Material 11
Direct labour (2 hours) 12
Variable:overhead (2 hours) 6

All labour time-is fully utilised, A, customer approaches Jason Ltd'to make a special order, for which he will
pay CU10,000. To carry-out:the order, materials ‘will need to be purchased for CU3,000,-extra fixed.costs of
CU500 will bé incurred, and 500 hours of-labour time will be required.
What.is'the éffect-of the ofder on profit?

15 Jones:Ltd plans to spend.CU90,000.on an item:of ‘capital equipment.on ‘1. January 20X2. ‘The. expenditure.is
eligible: for. ‘18%. writing: down:allowances, ‘and Jones. pays corporation tax at an effective rate of 21%. The:
equipment’will produce savings of. CU30,000. per annum.for its expected useful.life deemed to. be‘receivable.
every 31 December. The equipment will. be sold for CU25;000. on ‘31.'December 20X5. Jones .has a 31,
December yearend and.has a 10% post-tax cost’of.capital.

What.is the present:value at, 1 January 20X2 of the:tax savings that.result;from;the capital allowances?

16 A company:has 31 March,as its accounting-year'end. On 1 April.20X6 anew machine.costing CU2,000,000
is:purchased. The-company expects to sell the machine on,31 March:20X8. for CU500;000.

The effective rate of' corporation tax for the company is 21%. Writing down.dllowances aré obtained at 18%
onthe reducing balance basis, and a: balancing allowance is available. on disposal ofthe asset. The-company
makes sufficient profits to.obtain rélief:for capital allowances as-soon as they arise.

If the company's: cost of capital is 10% per annum, what.is the present value at ‘l. April 20X6 of the effect on
tax.cash.flows of capital allowances (to’the.nearest CU000)?

17 A. company is considering: investment: in. new labour-saving equipment costing CUI million. One major:
‘saving:is expected to-be.semi-skilled labour which in:the year'20X0 is'paid.\CUS per hour. However, the:firm.
expects to have 'to increase this labour cost ‘at. 5% per annum into the foreseeable future. If-purchased, the
equipment’would expect.to:save:20,000.labour hours ‘per year, and-would ৮০11 place.from the start.of 20X1,
The company's: money. cost.of. capital is: 15.5%.

Assuming that savings arise at the end.of'each year, what (to the nearest-CU000) is the present: value at the
beginning .of 20X 1, of ‘the;savings,over.a ten_year planning period?
&D | ‘Financial Management

‘18 A company is commencing a project with: an initial outlay of CU50,000 on 1 January 20201. It is estimated
that thé-Gompany will sell 1,000:itéms:on 31. December 20X11 and.at‘the end of éach subsequent’ year until 31
December 20X3. The contribution per unit on. 31 December 20X11 will be .CU33, and is expected to 1196 by'
10% ‘per year over the life of the project.
At the end.of the project scrap sales-are expected to realise a.cash amount of CU15,000. This will.be received
by the.company on 3.1 December 20X3. At-an.inflation rate of: 10%-pa the real:cost of capital.is 10% pa.
What.is the net:présent value of the-project's cash flows:at 1 January 20X1 (to the nearest CU1,000)?
19° Ackford ‘is contemplating. spending’ CU400;000 on new machinery. This will be: used, to produce a.
revolutionary type of-lock;:for, which demand is expected'to last three. years. Equipment: will be_bought:on 31 iC
December, 20X1. and revenue:from, sale of:locks would be receivable ‘on 3.1. December'20X2, 20X3 and 20X4. Et}
Labour and labour-related costs for the three years, payable-in ;arrears, are‘estimated at CU500;000 per-annum. A
in.current terms. These figures are-subject to.inflation at 10%: per‘annum. দু
Materials required for the'three ১০35 12-00-1116 originally.cost CU300,000; they’ would B
cost’ CU500,000 at: curtent prices although Ackford had planned to sell them for CU350,000.. The sales R
revenue from locks in the: first: year will be CU900,000. This. figure: will rise at 5% per annum over the:
product. life.
If Ackford has :a;money' cost: of capital of. 15.5%, what. is. the: net’ present value’ of the: lock project at. 3:1 2)
December.20X1?
20 Calder. Inc has been. told that ‘its ‘real" cost-of capital is 10%. ‘The twin benefits from a prospective’ project.
have been estimated at CUS0,000 and. CU80,000 per annum. Both types of benefit‘are receivable in arrears
and for. an indefinite period;, both are expressed in current’terms, the: former‘subject to 4% inflation, the:latter
to 8% inflation.
If the Consumer Prices. Index’ indicates general inflation running’ at 7%, ‘what is the present: value of the
estimated benefits?
21 Paisley Ltd plans to purchase a:machine-costing:CU13,500., The machine will save labour costs of CU7,000.
in the first’ yéar:. Labour‘ratés iin the second ‘year will incréase: by 10%.. The estitnated avérage annual rate of’
inflation is 8%, and the-company's real, cost. of Capital is estimated at 12%.
The machine:has a. two year'life:with an estimated actual, salvage value of CU5,000:receivable:at:the end 01
year 2, All‘cash:flows occur at the year. end.,
What is the NPV (to the nearest‘CU10) of the proposed investment?
22. Four projects, P, Q,.R and-S, are available to. a. company ‘which is facing ‘shortages ‘of capital over’the next
year but.expects:capital to be freely. available thereafter.
Project’
P ঠা R S
CU'000: CU'000 CU‘000 01000
Total capital. required over life of project: 20 30 40 50
Capital-réquired in next-year 20 10 30 40.
Net present. value of: project:at:company's
cost. of. capital 60. 40 100. 80
In what:sequence should.the projects be.selected,if the company wishes to-maximise.net present values?
Questions:23:and 24
With reference to the following information, answer questions 23 and 24,
A company has identified. a number of independent investment projects, each of. which lasts two ‘years.. It .is
‘estimated.that the:cash.flows' and net:present values of the.projects are.as:follows:
Time: NPV.
‘to ty 12,
গে CU CU cU
‘Investment appraisal: | Si

Project:H. (500) +250 +260 (49)

Project I (2,000) +1,500 +1,500 +603

Project:J +500 +650 (1,250) 458

Project:K. +350 (750) +375 (22)

Project.L (1,000) +600 +1,200 +537

Cash. flows.:in t; and, t, occur at,the end of each year, and to is the immediate: inflow/outflow. ‘Inflows ‘from. one

project:can,be.used to:finance,outflows for another project in the same. period.

23 If the cash available<for, investment projects. at ty:is limited (0. ০02,850 and projects are: indivisible, what is
the. maximum net present value-that:could be:generated from ‘projects?

24. If the: cash ‘available: for investment projects at tp is limited, to CU2,000 and projects are: infinitely divisible,
what will be the-net present value generated from, projects accepted?

25 Plum Ltd wishes to replace its existing pressing ‘machine with. a. new model. immediately. The new ‘model
would be'replaced by. the same-model in perpetuity. Three‘new. models are available as follows:

Model 1 রব 111
Purchase ‘price: CU50,000 CU40,000 €U70,000,
Estimated life S:years 4 years 6 years
Annual running: costs

(payable‘at ‘the end ofeach’ year) CU4;000 CU6;000 03,500
Tf model T: were purchased, its life could. be extended to eight years by:incurring ‘repair costs ০10030,000
after. five years of use..Annual running. costs ‘of CU7,000. would be incurred atthe end of. each. of the three
years of ‘extended life. Plum Ltd has-a cost of. capital of. 10%. per, annum. Plum has the following options
regarding purchasing the machine and the replacement policy..

(i) Purchase model I-and:replace every five-years

(ii) Purchase model I-and‘replace every eight years

(iii) Purchase model II and replace every four’years

(iv) Purchase‘model IIl.and replace every'six:years

Which. new model should. Plum Ltd: choose,, and ‘what: replacement: policy should ‘it follow if it wishes to
minimise the present value:of its costs?

26 A machine costing CU150,000 has a useful life of cight'years, ‘after. which time its estimated resale value. will
be.CU25,000. Annual running costs ‘will.be:CU5,000 for the:first three years of use:and CU8;000:for-each of
the.next*five: years. All.running costs:are ‘payable.on:the last day of the year to’ which they rélate.,

Using.a discount rate of'20% per:annum,,;what‘would be.the annual equivalent cost of using the:machine:if it
were bought and. replaced every eight years.in perpetuity (to:the:nearest CU100)?

27 MRDIPSTICK
Mr Dipstick’has:been asked to quote’a price for a special contract. He:has already prepared his tender, but:has
asked ‘you to‘review. it for him.

He has pointed out: to you that:he wants to. quote: the;minimum. price ‘as he believes this will lead. to more
lucrative work.in.the.future.
Mr Dipstick's.tender
cU
Material
A, 2,000 kgs @.CU10 per kg 20,000
‘'B, 1,000 kgs @ CUIS per-kg 15,000
C,'500 kgs @ CU40 per.kg 20,000,
D; 50 litres @ CU;12 per litre 600
Labour
Skilled 1,000: hrs @ CU25 per hr 25,000
‘Semi-skilled 2,000-hrs:@ CU15 per hr 30,000,
Unskilléd 500, hrs ‘@ CU10 per‘hr 5,000
Fixed overheads 3,500 hrs ও CU12'per hr. -42,000
Costs:of preparing the: tender.
52] | ‘Financial Management

Mr Dipstick's‘time 1,000
Otherexpenses ‘500
Minimum. profit:(5.% of total :costs) 7,725:
Minimum tender price 166,825
Other information
Material .A. 1,000 kgs of this:material is in inventory at‘a cost.of CUS per kg. Mr Dipstick.has no alternative:
use for this ‘material and intends selling it for CU2 per kg. However, if he sold. any he: would-have to: pay a
fixed sum.of:CU300 to cover delivery:costs. The current:purchase price is CU10 per.kg.
Material ‘B: There is. plenty of this.material in.inventory at:a cost‘of‘CU18 per kg.: The current purchase price: C
has fallen: to ০015 per kg: This. material is:constantly used'by:Mr Dipstick.in his business. FA)
A
Material C, The total amount in inyentory of 500.kgs was bought for CU10,000 some:time' ago for another P
one-off contract'which never happened. Mr:Dipstick is. considering selling: it for CU6,000 in total-or using it: Tv
‘as @ substitute for another material, constantly used ‘in normal production, If used in. this latter manner’ it B
would save CU8,000 of the other material. Current. purchase price is CU40 perkg. R
Material .D: There are 100 litres: of this material. in inventory. It 1s dangerous and 10110005860 in this contract:
will have to be disposed.of at a cost:to.Mr Dipstick of CU5S0'per litre. The current purchase price is CU12 per —_ সস
litre: 2
Skilled labour. Mr Dipstick only hires skilled.labour when he needs 10, CU25 per hour is the current hourly
rate.
Semi-skilled labour. Mr Dipstick has a workforce of 50 semi-skilled Jabourers ‘who are. currently :not:fully
employed. They are-on annual-contracts and the number. of ‘spare hours’ currently available for this project:is
1,500. Any ‘hours in excess ‘of this will-have to be paid 6130 time and.a half. The normal.hourly rate:is CU15
per-hour.
Unskilled labour. ‘These are currently fully employed by Mr, Dipstick on jobs where:'they produce a
contribution of CU2 per unskilled labour hour. Their current.rate.is CU10 per hour, :although extra could be.
hired-at'CU20,an hour if necessary,
Fixed overheads. This.is considered by Mr Dipstick’to'be an accurate-estimate of the hourly tate based on his
existing production.
Costs: of ‘preparing the tender. Mr Dipstick.has spent ten hours working .on this project 80 00100 per hour,
which he believes is.his charge-out’rate. Other-expenses include the cost of travel and research spent by Mr
Dipstick:on the’project.
Profit. This.is Mr. Dipstick's minimum profit.margin which,he believes, is:necessary:to cover ‘general day to.
day-expenses-of running:a business’.
Requirement.
Calculate and:explain.for Mr.Dipstick what:you believe the minimum tender price should be:
(16 marks)
28 TINOCO LTD
In January 20X3 Tinoco, Ltd. gave the go-ahead to ‘its. research and. development department:to pursue work:
on, a.major:new. product: line; code-named “Product Z;. The cash expenditure to:date on this development has
totalled €U200,000, consisting-of'\CU70,000 during 20X3 and CU130,000 during 20X4. The work is now
complete, resulting.in.a marketable product:
In order to market this product the company‘will. need to build and equip a new factory specifically for'the
purpose. .A. suitable site has been found which, if the company decides to go ahead with.production, will be
purchased on 1 January. .20X5 ata cost of CU270,000. Construction of the factory will then commence
immediately ‘and take an estimated two years:at-a total cost of CU2.5 million. Half. of this sum will be payable
as a stage payment ‘at the end. of the: first: year of construction, the balance being. payable on completion.
Installation.of the:necessary machinery can be done during the:last'two months of construction and will cost a
total. of CU1;250,000. CU250,000 of this will be. paid upon delivery and the. balance’ in. two equal annual
instalments on.the‘anniversary of delivery.
‘Investment appraisal: | 53)

The company intends to undertake a significant advertising campaign for this. new product, which will
commence ‘twelve months ‘before completion of the factory. During its first. year this campaign will, cost
CU150,000:and will then continue for the next two years at a-cost of CU250,000.and CU100,000 respectively
in-each of: those: years. Payment will be. made at the:end of.each of the three-years..As'a consequence of- this
campaign the company 19 forecasting an annual demand for Product Z of 400,000 units and expects ‘this
demand level to. continue for ten: years after production commences. Initial production will commence
immediately upon completion of the:factory at:an.annual-rate:to‘match demand.
Production.costs will consist of ‘CU4 per unit of variable costs and-annual fixed costs of CU300;000. After
five years of production the:equipment within the factory will:need replacement. The:old:machinery will be
sold, for CU250,000 and. new equipment acquired, at the same cost and on the same terms as the original,
equipment. ‘This:replacement can be achieved without,disruption.to ‘production.
At the end 0৫006 ten-year production period the product will be abruptly discontinued, and the production
facility will then be surplus ‘to the coiipany's requirements. It is expectéd ‘that*the machinery can be sold at
that time for CU250,000 and 'that-the:factory. and site will command a-price:of CU3 million.
Despite extensive market research during. the’ last’ six months at a cost: of CU50;000 the company. remains
uncertain as to’the price it will be able’to charge for this:new product. However, the sales director ‘is currently
suggesting‘a selling: price:of €U7.50:per unit.
The company's discount.rate is 15% per annum.
‘Requirements
(a) Calculate: the net present value of the proposed new production, assuming the sales director's forecast:
selling price is correct: (12 marks)
(b) Calculate-the:minimum selling price:that.must be 36031) order to:make Product 7.3 "13016 proposition.(3 marks)
(15 marks)
29 SHAW SECURITY SYSTEMS LTD
Shaw ‘Security Systems Ltd, 4, company. finariced by a mixture of eqility. and debt ‘capital, manufactures
devices which seek to deter the theft.of motor vehicles. The company's development.department has recently’
produced ‘4 new type of ‘anti-theft device. This device, which will be known as an Apollo, will be fitted to
private motor-vehicles, The Apollo emits.an.€lectroni¢:signal which নো be picked ‘up by“an electronic sensor’
fitted to police’ cars, enabling’the police-to locate stolen cars. and, possibly, apprehend the‘thief. Development.
costs.totalled .CU500,000. These were all incurred:in 20X5,
A decision now.needs to be taken as'to whether to go aliead with producing-and marketing Apollos. This is to
be ৮৪5০0 011 the expected net present value of the relevant cash flows, discounted 30016 company’s estimate of
the:20X5 weightéd.average cost of capital of 8% (after'tax).. The:company’s management:believes that.a three
year ‘planning’ horizon. is appropriate for this decision, ‘so it will be’ assumed that: sales will ‘not: continue:
beyond 20X8.
Following discussions with a number of police forces, the company has reached agreement that, if it decides
to: go ahead with,the project, one of the Midland forces will-trial the Apollo system, and the sensors will be:
fitted to its police cars.,
The cost;of providing and fitting'the sensors to the:police cars would be borne by thé company, which. would
retain ownership. The-police force would"bear the cost of maiftenance. The sensors would be manufactured
and fitted by a sub-contractor, who has offered to do this work. by the end of 20X5 for a‘total ০০১৮০ CUI
million, payable immediately on completion of ‘the work. This cost’ would, attract the: normal capital
allowinces.for:plant and equipment-at 18% reducing balance. 10016 company were.to:make the investment, it
would elect for the sensors to be ‘treated .a8 a short-life-asset. Arthe end of thrée years the sensors would be
‘scrapped,
The first;sdlés.of Apollos would be'expected to be made during the-year ending 311 ‘December 20X6. There-is
lincertainty-as to‘the level. of sales which, could be expected, so.a market survey has been undertaken at-a-cost
of CU100,000.
The survey suggests that, 80016 company's target ex-works price of CU200 per Apollo, there would be.a 60%.
chance of: selling 10,000, Apollos and a:40% chance of selling: 12,000 during 20X6.
4 | ‘Financial Management

If the: 20X6 salés were to be at‘the lower level, 20X7 sales ‘would be:either 8,000 Apollos (30% chance) or
10,000 (70% chance). If 20X6 sales were to 66 at.the higher level, 20X7 sales would be estimated at 12,000
Apollos (50% chance) or 15,000 (50% chance).
20X8:sales. would be expected to’ be.50% of'whatever'level.of sales: were‘to'ccur in 20X7:
Sales of Apollos would be expected to have-an adverse effect-on sales of the Mercury, a less sophisticated.
device produced by the company, 006 extent that for:every two Apollos sold :one Jess Mercury. would, be
sold. This effect-would be expected to continue throughout the:three:years.
Materials and components would be: bought in at a cost of CU70-per Apollo. Manufacture of each Apollo.
would require: three. hours of. labour: This labour. would,-come.-from staff released. by the lost Mercury, GC)
production. To the extent: that this would provide insufficient, hours, staff would work: overtime, paid at,a FA
premium of 50% over the: basic:pay ০6006 an hour. A
P
The Mercury has the:following cost:structure, T
CU per unit 8
Selling price: (ex-works) 100:
Materials 20 ——
Labour (4 hours) 24 2
Fixed overheads (on a.labour hour basis) 33
The. management team. currently employed by the company would. be able: to manage the Apollo: project
‘except that, should the project. go ahead, four managers, who. had accepted. voluntary ‘redundancy from. the
company, would be asked to’stay until the end of 20X8. These managers: were: due to leave the:company on,
3.1, December:20X5 and:to receive:lump ‘sums of CU30,000 each at that time. ‘They were also: due-to:receive
an.annual fee of CU8,000 each for consultancy work, which the:company would.require:of them from time to
time. If they were:to agree to stay. on, they would.receive an annual salary of €U20,000. each, to. include the:
‘consultancy fee. They would, 3150 receive: lump sums of CU35,000 each on, 31. December 20X8. It jis
envisaged. that the managers would be-able to fit any consultancy requirements round. their work, managing
the.Apollo-project. ‘These payments would all be borne:by the company and would qualify for full tax-relief.,
Apollo production and salés would 1100 be expected ‘to give rise: to any additional operating costs: beyond
those meiitiéned above.
Working capital ‘to support both, Apollo:and Mercury production ‘and sales would be-expected ‘to run at arate
of 15% of. the ex-works sales value. 'The‘working:capital would need to be in place by the beginning of each
year concerned.:There:would be no tax effects from changes in the:level.of' working capital.
The company's accounting year end is 31. December. Sales should be assumed to occur:on the. last-day of. the
relevant’year. The:company's corporation.tax-rate.is expected to be.21% throughout the:planning period. Tax.
cash.flows:occur at'the end.of the accounting period 10 which they.relate.
Requirements
(a) ‘Prepare.a schedule which derives the annual.expected net cash flows from the-Apollo project, and.use it.
to-assess the project on the-basis:of its expected net present value.
(18 marks)
(b) Comment on.the assessment of the project:made-in:requirement (a).and any reservations’ you have about
09118035016 basis for making a:decision.as'to whether to proceed with the project, (4 marks)
Ignoré inflation.
Work:to the nearest-CU1,000. (22 marks).
30 FIORDILIGI LTD
Fiordiligi Ltd is evaluating.a potential:new product, the ottavio, in, which-the following costs-are involved.
(a) Labour
Each. ottavio requires: 1/2’hour’of skilled labour and 2 hours: of unskilled labour. During the next. year
Fiordiligi.expects to:-have a.surplus of. skilled labour, :retained on. contracts under which. the:minimum
‘wage is guaranteed. ‘This surplus is. sufficient to complete the budgeted quantity of ottavios in the first
year, but there will be no surplus thereafter. All-unskilled labour. will be, taken-on as required.
‘Investment appraisal: | [০০1

The wage ratés.até CU4.00:per hour'for:skilled labour and CU2.50 per hour for unskilled.
(b) Materials

(i) “Material, ‘Ping’ is used -in the ottavios, 2’ kgs per unit: No ‘inventories of Ping are held by the
company.

Qi): Material. 'Pang’ is used at the rate of0.5 kg per'unit of ottavio. Sufficient of*this material to meet.
the entire. budgeted ‘production, is already in inventory; it has no other, use..

(iii) Material. ‘Pong” is ‘also used; 1.5 kgs: are: required per unit. Some inventories are ‘already’ held;
further 'supplies.may readily be: purchased. Pong is used in.the:manufacture of another product, the
masetto, which earns a ‘contribution of CU0.85. per kg of Pong, net of the cost, of Pong, and.
depreciation at an estimated CU0.06 per kg:

The value of the various.materials may be-summarised:as follows.

Ping. Pang Pong:

Cost-of material in-inventory: (per kgy - CU2.00 CU0.70

Current:replacement cost:(per:kg) CU1.40 CU2.20 CU0.80

Current:realisable value (per kg) CU1.10 CU1.80. CU0.65

Any materials:requiring purchase will be bought:in:advance of'the: year for:which-they-are.needed.

(c) Overheads

(i) ‘Variable overheads are:expected'to be incurred. at the rate of CU1.40 per skilled labour hour. This
represents the extra cash ০০90০০০1160.

(ii) Fixed overheads will be affected bythe project.as follows.

(1). A.new’factory will’be leased at ‘an. annual-rental-of CU2,000 in. advance.for the life of the
project.

(2) Rates on the factory (payable.in arrears) will be ০01,000 per annum.

(8) The equipment (seé. below) will be written: down. to its realisable value over. the-life, of, the
project.

(4): The. central ‘management. accounting department. will absorb administration costs’ into
‘production on the basis ‘of CU0.50 per. unskilled labour hour. Direct administration. of. the.
project will. be carried. out by. management ‘without any increase in overtime. or staffing
levels.,

1033 expected that-ottavios: will be produced for‘three years at the.rate of 10,000 units per annum, and:then for
a further two years, at the.rate:of 8,000 units per annum. The selling price will be 0018 per-unit inthe first.
three.years and CU14 thereafter.
Special machinery will. be:purchased ‘at the start.of the-project-for €U60,000, It will be’ sold atthe end.of the
fifth year for CU6,000,
Requirement.
Calculate the:net present:value of the projected, production of ottavios, and.hencé advise the directors whether
or.not-to proceed. The company's cost of Capital for:investments of: this nature:is 15%. (15 marks).
Note: Ignore taxation.
31 GIOVANNI. LTD

Giovanni Ltd is considering ‘investing in an ice cream plant to operate for the next:four years. After that time
the plant will.be-worn out, and Giovanni, the owner. of the company, wishes to retire in any case. The plant:
will cost'CU5,000 and.is expected to have:no realisable value afterfour years. If worthwhile: the plant will be
purchased at the end of.an, accounting period. Capital allowances. at the rate of 18% per annum. (reducing,
balance) will be available in,respect-of the expenditure.
Revenue from the:-plant will be CU7,000, per annum. for, the first two. years and CU5,000, per annum
thereafter. Incremental costs will be:CU4,000 per annum throughout.

56) | ‘Financial Management

You may assume ‘that: all, cash flows occur at the énd of the financial, year. to Which they relate, Assume

Gidvanni Ltd pays corporation tax.at-21% and has a.cost of capital.of 10%.

Requirements

(a) Calculate the tax, jsaved through capital allowances and show when the savings arise.

(3 marks).

(b) Advise Giovanni Ltd on whether or not to proceed with investment in the ice cream plant.

(4 marks)

(০) Show what difference.it would:make-if the plant were to.be: purchased and. sold at.the beginning of the
accounting. period. Comment on the wisdom of disposing of an.asset,on the first.day of an accounting. ডে
৩1100. (3 marks) 4)

(10 marks) a
32. SHAREHOLDER VALUE T

(a) The following statements appear in.theiobjectives of two well-known public limited companies. 8
“We:never.confuse. why. we exist '—-to’create:the:maximum possible:returns to.our shareholders.’

‘In. everything the company does, ‘itis committed to creating wealth, always: with. integrity, for ‘our ——$———
employees, customers, ‘suppliers and the community in which. we-operate.' [21
Requirement

Discuss these two different ‘perspectives of the operation of a firm, and explain why they’ are :not.

necessarily contradictory, (5 marks)

(b) The managing director of the first. company believes ‘that the best external measure of shareholder

‘wealth maximisation is.growth.in earnings per’share (EPS).
Requirement:
Critically evaluate this. belief, Suggest:thtee value drivers on-which a business:can focus, and why their
management will,increase shareholder wealth. (6 marks).
(11 marks)
33 PACKERS-.LTD

Packers ‘Ltd has been. offered -a contract. to manufacture a. batch of chemicals. The company's managers

estimate that it will take two ‘years to produce the chemicals. The price offered is CU235,000 expressed in

current: pounds sterling. This price will be. increased. in, line with increases in the Consumer Price. Index

during; the contract period, and the-adjusted, amount will be:paid:in full, when the ‘chemicals. are delivered at

the.end of'two years:

Production.of:the chemicals will require the-following-resources.

0) A ‘machine will be purchased. immediately ‘for CU75,000 for exclusive use:.on this contract. The.
machine-will.have a two-year life and. no:scrap or-resale value:

(2) Ten workers who are currently employed by the company will each work:for two: years on production

of. the chemicals. The total cost of employing one worker is currently 006,000 per annum,, based on
‘wage rates which. have recently been agreed for the: coming year. ‘The: managers: expect’ to negotiate
‘wage rates:at’the.end of.one year; asia result.they. expect that total employment costs for the:second.year
of the contract will ‘rise by 12.5%. ‘You.may-assume: that’ all employment costs are: payable: on the last
‘day'of the year to which.they relate.
If the:chemicals-contract is! not’accepted, there will be no work within the company for the:ten workers
during the: coming two ‘years ‘and they’‘will, be made: redundant. ‘The company will incur a net
redundancy.cost of CU200 for each.worker payable immediately. The.managers:expect:new orders after
two years-and the-company will.re-employ the ten workers at the end of the’second. year. Administrative:
and ‘advertising: costs. associated’ with. the re-employment: are: expected to: be CU500 per person. This
amount'will not be affected by inflation during the:next two years.

(3) 2,000 units of.raw‘material D will/be:needed immediately ‘and 2,000 units: will be needed. at the end of
one year. Packers Ltd has ‘2,000 units of D in inventory: These units originally cost:CU18 per‘unit and
have a current:replacement cost.of €U20 per unit. The company has no‘use-for material D- other than on
the contract offered and, if the: contract is rejected, the units in inventory. will be: disposed ‘of at an.

‘Investment appraisal: | Sy

inimediate-cost of CU1.50-per unit. (The material-is highly specialised.and cannot'be re-sold.) The cost:
of buyirig:material D is expected to tise by 15% during the.coming year.
Packers Ltd has a discount rate of 15% per‘annum, which reflects the inflation expected over'the life of
the contract, and ‘thé Consumer'Price Index rise-is 10% pert annum.
Requirement:
Calculate the net:-present;value ofthe contract which, has been:offered.to.Packers Ltd. (10 marks)
34 -AINSDALE LTD
Ainsdale Ltd, .an.all equity company, manufactures a single product, an:item of exercise:equipment for use in
the.home. The company is considering moving:one of its factories .to:a new'site.
Moving to new premises: would take: place on. (1. January 20X1. It would :cause significant disruption. to
existing sales and production, and incur ‘substantial :initial costs. The new site: would :mean, however, that
output, would no. longer be:constrained. by the,size.of the:factory and. hence; when there-is sufficient demand,
higher output and sales can.be.achieved.
If the move: takes place the: existing premises would be leased out: indefinitely ‘for an annual rental of
CU450,000' payable in. advance:commencing. 1 January‘20X1. Lease rentals would be subject. to corporation,
tax.
The cost ‘of new. premises. would be: CU10 million payable: on. 1 January 20X1. Assume that the premises
would not qualify for:industrial buildings allowances.
Improved machinery for the new factory would. be purchased at 31 December 20X0 at a cost’ of
CU1 million. This ‘machinery would be expected to. be 35010 01) 31.December‘20X4. for CU300;000. The: old
machinery, which has a zero written.down value, would need to:be scrapped at 3:1 December 20X0 if the:new
factory 19 purchased but, ‘due to, its ‘specialist:nature, would not ‘generate any proceeds. It would, however,
continue.to be:used if the:company were:not to move:to.the new factory.
Machinery is subject to a ‘short-life' ‘asset.election and excluded ‘from the. general. pool (ignore ‘re-pocling).
This means: that.it attracts 18% (reducing balance) tax allowances ‘in the ‘year.of its ‘acquisition and.in every
subsequent year of its being owned by the company, except the last year. In. the last year the difference
between the:machinery's written down value-for'tax: purposes and its disposal proceeds will either be allowed
to the company‘as an: additional tax relief, 10016 disposal. proceeds.are:less than the’written down. value, ,or be
charged to the:company.if the’disposal proceeds:are more than the-tax:written down, value:
The maximum production capacity of the new. factory‘would-normally be 10 million‘units:per year‘and that-of
the-existing factory is 6 million.units:per year. Due to setting-up’ time and.disruption from moving,, however,
the capacity: of the new factory:in 20X1 would. be only 5 million units. Potential-demand for the company's
output.in.the: years ending 3.1 December ‘is estimated as:follows.
Units
(millions):
20X.1 8
20X2 9
20X3 10
2044. 9
20X5:and thereafter 6
Given that: projected ‘sales. and output are equal for both factories in. the year ‘20X5. and thereafter, no
incremental manufacturing costs or.revenues. will.arise from the move after 20X4.
Labour is employed under. flexible contracts. It is ‘thus estimated that labour costs ‘will vary’ directly with
output, being'CU1 per-unit of output. This is the case at both the existing-and the-new factory.
Material 00810063061 unit:of’outputiand costs per kg-are as follows..
‘Quantity. Cost per'kg
a kgs CU
Material XM2 2 1,50
Material TS4 1 1.25
Material.XM2 would only be;available from;anoverseas supplier during 20X11 and 20X2, and this would-lead
to a transport ‘cost on material. purchases of CU1.75 per kg in addition to, the basic CU1.50 per kg: during,
those two years. From‘20X3, however, it 'is expected that a UK. supplier will be able to provide the material
for CU1.50-per'kg.
58} | ‘Financial Management

The sélling price per unit is sét to achieve a contribution of 40% of selling price. For this purpose
contribution is defined as selling: price lesslabour and material costs. It-excludés.transport Costs, training and
redundancy costs.
If-the company decides to:move site, some employees are-éxpectéd to réfuse'to move. This is expected to lead
to rédundancy payments of CU200,000 which will be made on 1 January 20201. Retraining costs. of
CU100,000 will be‘incurred on 3:1 December 20X0 in respect:of thé replacement employees.
The corporation tax:rate:can be assumed to be 21%, Assuie that tax is paid at’the end of the-accounting year
in which, the transaction occurs. There are expected to. be sufficient taxable profits available to: set off. all,
allowiinces.
The annual after-tax: cost 01087108115 10%.. The:cornpany prepares its accounts to.31 December each year: All iC}
cash flows;can be:assumed to arise:at:year ends unless otherwise-specified.. FA)
: A
Requirements P
(a) Identify the annual net incremental cash flows that would arise from Ainsdale Ltd's decision to. move: v
the location of its factory, and use-them to calculate the net, present value at:1 January 20X 1. (18 marks) 8
(8) Calculate.the: payback period.in respect of'the.incremental cash flows: which would arise,from_Ainsdale
Ltd's decision to move.the-location of its factory: (3 marks)
Ignore inflation. (21 marks) [2
35 ARCADIAN PRODUCTS: LTD
The ‘management: of Arcadian. Products: Ltd. is: considering the: introduction. 06 a new product, code: named.
NPI4. The. company's finance: department: has undertaken some’ investigations and has assembled the
following:information.relating:to.NP.14 production,
0) Annual contributions. from.NP14s are expected to be as follows.
Year cum:
20X1 2.5
20X2 3.5
20X3 3:5
204 2.5
Production.and sales would be expected to. cease at the:end of 20X4. Sales-and operating expenses are
assumed to occur on the:.last day of the relevant ‘year: ‘The. company's accounting year is. to 31
December.
(2) Production.of.NP14s would require the.use of:-some new equipment.
This equipment could be bought.and paid for at the end 01207007808 cost:of CU12-million. It'would be
‘scrapped at. the-end of 20X4 for‘an. estimated. CU2 million. Under the contract.to buy. 0115 equipment
there’ would be an obligation for the ‘supplier to maintain the equipment throughout its four-year life:at
no:cost to the company:
Alternatively, production could use existing equipment already owned. by the company. This equipment.
is currently ‘not in-use and would be sold on. 3.1. December 20X0 for an estimated CU3 million, were it
not ‘to be: used. in NP14: production. It was bought for CU10 ‘million and first used during 20W8. It.
would be expected fo.continue to operate effectively in the:production.of NP.14s-until the’end of. 20X4,
when. it'would be expected'to be' scrapped (zero sales proceeds).
Y.ou ‘should ‘assume. that all items of equipment are. treated. as 'short-life’ assets ‘and excluded from the.
“pool. This ‘means: that the equipment: attracts a 18% (reducing balance) tax: allowance in the ‘year of
acquisition-and in every subsequent year of ownership by the:company, except the last*year. In.the last
year the: difference between the. equipment's: written-down. value ‘for tax purposes and its disposal.
‘proceeds is expected to be treated. as an additional. relief, if the disposal proceeds are less’ than the.
‘written-down, value; or be ‘charged to: the company, if the disposal proceeds are ;more than the tax
‘written-down, value.
A. problem with using the existing equipment is that it would ‘require a relatively high level of
‘maintenance to enable ‘it to operate as-effectively as the new equipment. The annual.maintenance costs
of the old equipment are estimated to be as:follows.
‘Investment appraisal: | &

Year CUm
‘20X1 0.5
20X2 1:5
20X3 2:0
204 2.5

(3) Labour for NP14 production, included, :in calculation of the contributions, would be hired .for the
duration ofthe production period.

(4) NP14 production would require the support of working capital, equal to 10% of-the contributions: This
would need to be:in place by-the start of. each’year. It.has-:no tax:implications: The maintenance. costs,
were the existing’ plant:to, be used, would.not give.rise to-any working capital requirement.

(5) The corporation tax rate is expected to be’21% for the foreseeable future. Assume that’tax will be paid
at the:end of the:year in which:the event giving.rise to it occurs.

(6) All operating.cash flows. are expected, to increase by’an annual factor, of 3%, ‘due to: general inflation.
Except:for the:expected disposal proceeds of the:equipment, all of the:financial information given.above
‘is expressed‘in terms of 1 January:20X1 prices.

The company's real cost of-capital, oniall of its activities, is estimated at 10% per annum.

(7) There are:no‘incremental costs or.benefits:other than‘those.to:which:reference is made above.

Requirements

(a) Assuming:that‘NP14 production and sales would be-economically’ viable, produce a ‘schedule of annual
cash.flows and use it to indicate whether the company should use the existing equipment.or acquire:;new
‘equipment. (13 marks)

(b) Taking account of the decision reached in (a), produce. a schedule of. annual cash flows and use it to
indicate whether NP14 production’ would be economically viable. (8 marks)

Work'to the nearest'CU000. (21 marks)

36 JUNO PRODUGTS LTD
Juno ‘Products Ltd leases a. factory in ‘North Wales where, among ‘other products, it makes a component,
known.as the MCI5, which ‘is ‘used in the manufacture of ‘civil airliners and sold;to aircraft manufacturers
worldwide. The factory's lease expires on 31 December 20Y2,:so the:company intends to.review:the future of:
all:of its production there.in anticipation.of that event. Meanwhile:the immediate;future of MC15 production
is in,doubt. Some members of the company's management team, believe-that:recent developments in. aircraft:
design have rendered the. MC15 an-uneconomic prospect for the company during the: four years: 1 January,
20X9 to 31 December 20Y2..As-a:member of the.company's finance staff you. have been. asked. to. make an
assessment’of ‘the. economic viability of the MC@15 over the next four years on.the basis of. net,present value.

It seems. fairly certain that, irrespective of "the short-term future of the MC15, its. manufacture will not be:

continued beyond 2042.

Estimated sales demand for the MCI5 over the next four:years ending 31 December-at:a unit selling: price of

CU35,000 is:as follows.

Year Units

20X9 ‘500

20Y0. ‘500

20Y1 400

20Y2, 300

It is believed, however, that were a modification to be ‘made. to the design of the 1015, demand could be

raised to 700 units:in each of the-first two ‘years, butithis modification would have no effect ‘on. demand for

20Y.1. and 20Y.2..The:modification could be effected.by 3.1 December 20X8..

It would cost CU8 ‘million, ‘payable on 31 December 20X8, .and this amount would be fully allowable for

corporation: tax for the year in which this:expenditure would besincurred.

The factory'is leased for a fixed CU6 million, per annum payable.annually:in advance,

The direct, variable manufacturing costs. of each MC15 are as follows..

@ | ‘Financial Management

CU

Direct labour 4,000
Raw: material and-bought-in parts 7,000
The:company generally‘operates a ‘just-in-time’ inventory. holding policy, which: means 'that:the:inventories 01
nearly all of the materials and parts are‘negligible, In.the:case of one bought-in part, however,.there will be‘an.
‘inventory of. 1,000 units’ at ‘l. January 20X9. This arose because, early in’ 20X8, the company was.offered.a
special. deal on this item provided that it. was prepared to. make. a bulk purchase.. This. bought-in part is.
‘included in. the ‘raw ‘material and bought-in ‘parts. total above. at its normal price: of CU1,000 ‘per“unit. Each
MC15 requires the use ০0116 of these parts.and this'part can“be'used only in the:manufacture:of MC15s. The
bulk ‘purchase. was. made.‘ati‘a price of. CU800 per unit. If MCIS production. were: not to. continue, the G}
‘inventory could be'sold for CU600' per unit on 31 .December 20X8 for immediate cash settlement...Any’ 4)
‘necessary tax adjustments resulting:from this inventory. can be ignored. A
Ceasing 'MC15 production would release 25% of the factory space, but,this could not, be used for any other: দু
activity. The. labour 16168960.0010; however, be transferred. to another department of the-factory 01 ছা 010 on [৪
another of. the company's products..Demand-for that product ০১০০০৩:0৭০৪ ability of'the:company to meet.it due R
to-a shortage of:labour, a.shortage‘which would otherwise persist throughout the four years. For every: CU's
worth of labour. transferred, it is: estimated that a contribution (sales revenue less direct, labour and materials)
of CU3 could be generated. The possible. additional, sales of MC15s during 20X9 and 20Y0, should the: সভা
modification be-undertaken, would -not:affect the output of the other 01000. 2
Plant, bought for CU10 million on 1 January 20X7, is used in. the manufacture. of MCT5s. It could. be
disposed of on. 311..December 20X8 ‘for. an estimated CU6 ‘million. By 31. December: 20Y2 it ‘would. be
expected to-have no market’ value. This plant-was the subject ‘of. an election to be treated as a ‘short-life’ asset’
and excluded from the 'pool'. This:means that.it attracted 18% (reducing balance) tax allowances:in the: year.
of:its.acquisition-and in every subsequent’ year-of its being owned by the company, .except the last-year. In‘ the
last:year the difference between the plant's written:down value for tax purposes.and its disposal. proceeds will
either be allowed to the. company as an additional. tax relief, if the: disposal proceeds ‘are less than. the tax
written. down value, or be.charged to the:company.if the-disposal proceeds.are more.than the:tax-written down
value.
1013 estimated that overheads.(excluding lease payments) apportioned to.MC15 total-CU5 million per‘annum,
Of this amount.CU2 million .can_be-avoided by:ceasing MG.15 production.
The company's accounting year end is 31 December. The corporation tax. rate is expected to be 21%
throughout. the: period concerned. Tax: can be assumed.to be‘payable ‘at.the.end of the year in which the event
giving rise to-it-occurs.
There are.no:other incremental ‘cash-flows associated. with.MC15 production and sales.
All cash flows canbe treated as occurring on the. last day of the-year to which they relate, unless specified.
otherwise.
The company. uses its ‘after-tax’ long-term borrowing ‘rate: of 5% per annum to assess projects, and ‘you. are
expected to follow’ this approach.
Requirements
(a) Assuming that’ MCIS production and sales continue until 202, assess whether it would be

economically viable-to pay for the modification'to the design, of the product.

(4 marks)

(b) Using the results from (a), prepare-a statement which shows the annual relevant cash flows associated

with, a decision on. whether on, the basis of net’ present value ‘to Cease production, of MC15s. at 31.

December 20X8 or to.continue production until 3.1 December 20Y2. (11 marks)
(c) Discuss the suitability of using‘the long-term borrowing-rate as.the. discount-rate for project;evaluation.(3 marks)
Tgnore-inflation: (18 marks)

‘Investment appraisal: | wa

37. REXAL.LTD

Rexal Ltd is a small company that specialises‘in:the manufacture. of pit-props:and supports.

Management.see the-maximisation of shareholders’ wealth as the primary business objective. The.company is

profitable and. is. able: to utilise capital, allowances obtained on :new ‘capital investment; at. the -earliest

opportunity. The directors have never felt comfortable with debt finance and asa consequence: there is
negligible long-term debt:in the company's capital structure.

A local. coal field has approached Rexal Ltd recently requesting ‘the production. of some special pit-props.

After researching the contract‘it emerged 'that.there were two options available to the company:

These are:outlined below.

Option.1

A new machine will be purchased for‘CU80;000, payable on. 1, January 20X1. The-machinery will be:sold for:

008,000 0131 December 20X3.

Any labour required under this option will-have to be recruited.

The net?year-end operating cash inflows are:budgeted as follows.

CU

20X1 60,000.

20X2, 74,000

20X3 88,000

These. figures.are stated.in;money terms,and are before corporation tax..

Option.2

‘As an alternative to acquiring new equipment-and extra labour, use could.be made of-existing resources.

A ‘machine’ acquired many years’ ago: for CU120,000 could be ‘used on this project: It was to be-sold on 1

January 20X11 তি 030,000. If used. it is felt: that its realisable. value ‘would be: zero due’ to the three: extra

years of use. The-current tax written.down value: of this ‘asset-is ‘nil; all available: capital-allowances on. this

asset were taken as 100% first-year allowances in its first-year of-use..

The net’year-end operating-cash-inflows under‘option.2 are.the same.as' for option 1, except for the-following

two factors.

(a) Extra running costs of. 05,000 in 20X1,. which will rise in line with inflation thereafter, will. be
incurred due.to using. the: old-machinery:

(b) The Jabour’used for’ option.2 will be moved from existing company operations. This will lead to a loss
of. contribution on such operations of CU20,000, CU22,000 and CU23,500 in ‘the ‘three ‘years
respectively:

Working capital equal to. 10% of that: year's net cash, inflows, excluding, tax, flows, willbe required .at the:

beginning of each, year for both options. This will bé released at: the end. of’ the projéct. There are: ino tax

effects associated with movements in working capital. (Inthe case of option. 2, net cash inflows should be
taken as'the values after adjustment for the machine ‘and labour costs.).

The company's real cost’ of capital is estimated at’ 15% per annum and is expected to rémain at that rate for

the :foreséeable-future.

Inflation;rates have been estimated forthe-next:four years:as follows.

20X1 10%

20X2, 8%

20X3 6%

20X4 4%

‘The:company's:financial year runs: to 3.1, December.:Corporation tax is’payable.at 21%.

@ | ‘Financial Management

Requirements
(a) Calculate the net present values at. 31 December 20X0 of each of the two options.

(15 marks).
(b) Indicate. any :reservations you, might: have :in ‘basing an. investment decision, on. ‘these figures.

(3 marks).
(18 marks)
38 SOUTHSEA.LTD
Southsea. Ltd (Southsea) manufactures ‘high. specification ‘stretchers: for its sole customer, .HealthTrans, Ltd. ০
(HealthTrans), which. supplies ambulances and -ancillary products to. the UK.National Health Service anda 4)
range:of. private:hospitals-and firms. A
HealthTrans is‘ currently experiencing rapid growth.in business levels..A’s a result, Southsea.has recently been T
offered a new: five-year:contract with.HealthTrans: which ‘will. start on ‘1 January 20X2. Under this’ contract B
HealthTrans would guarantee‘to buy its entire‘stretcher. requirements from ‘Southsea, assuming that Southsea R
were able:to supply all of its:needs.
Demand.from .HealthTrans ‘tinder the existing contract in the year ending 31 December 20X11 is expected to [a
be 1,000 stretchers, However, HealthTrans forecasts that’this demand will rise’ at-d compound rate of 10% pa
over the:five:years of:the new ‘contract:
Atthe present time-Southsea has.a production capacity of 1,050:stretchers:pa, 0006 Companiy is considering
making an. investinent in, production facilities that would see its annual capacity rise to 1,500 stretchers pa.
However, the new contract with: HealthTrans will go ahead, ‘using existing production facilities, whether or
not Southsea. décides ‘to increase its production capacity: In any one year, Southsea, will only ever produce
‘sufficient:stretchers to:meet:that year’s annual:demandiie,:it will. not.-hold inventory:.
In-the year ending 3 1, Decemiber:20X1, the’price per strétcher:is CU2,500, but-the contract on offer contains a
commitment: from HealthTrans to accept an increase in, this price. over-the period: of ‘the contract: at, the UK
rate of inflation,-which is expected to bé 2% pa up to 31 December 20X4 .and:3% pa.thereafter..
The total. cost of the component parts of. each stretcher during the year ending 31 December 20X1. is
CU1,200. Due:to the highly competitive nature of the market for these. component parts, this cost.will;not be
subject to annual inflation, but:rather is: expected to fall at a. compound.rate of. 1% pa over the life of the:
contract due to the economies:of scale that would arise from: the increased levels: of production.
Labour costs are also expected to be subject to: efficiency gains. which. will be sufficient to. cancel out: the
effect of any:wage inflation. The cost of labour is‘therefore expected to:remain constant over the life of. the
contract:at:CU300 per stretcher.
Anticipated efficiency gains associated with the increased production’ levels also ‘mean. that ‘the ‘impact: on
working capital. requirements:-and fixed costs will.be negligible-and can be.ignored.
In order to achieve the proposed increase in production capacity, investment in production facilities. of CU2.
million would be-required and this would take place'on 31. December 20X1, The:new facilities would-have-an.
estimated useful life.of five years:at.the:end of which they‘are estimated to have no residual value.
The company’s Corporation tax-raté 1s expected, to be 21% for the-foreseeable futuré, and it can*be assumed
that tax payments. occur at ‘the énd, of the accounting ‘year to which they relate. The directors -are also
assuming that the new facilities will attract full capital allowances at 18% pa on a reducing balance basis
commencing in the year of purchase and Continuing throughout the company’s ownership of the new
facilities. A balancing chargé or allowance will arise on disposal. of the.new facilities which can, be assumed
to. be on 31 December 20X6. Sufficient:profits are-available for the firm to claim all such tax. allowances in
the year they arise..
The company’s real, after-tax cost-of capital is 7% pa, and its.accounting year end.is 31 December. Assume:
that all annual operating-cash flows.arise at the-year end.
‘Investment appraisal: | 63)

As the relationship between Southsea and HealthTrans has developed, directors of both, companies have
incréasingly consideréd the-possibility of a merger between the-two companies.
Requirements
(a) ‘Calculate the ‘net present value. at 31 December 20X1 of ‘the proposed investment, :in increased.
production facilities and; on the-basis.of your calculation, state whether-or not Southsea should proceed.(16 marks)
(8) Identify:and explain the type of-real option that might be most relevant to Southsea’s consideration of
its investment decision. (3 marks)
(c) Outline:in general,terms the potential advantagesiof a merger between Southsea;and HealthTrans. (3‘marks)
(22 marks)
39 RFALTD
RFA Ltd (REA), an all equity financed company, manufactures a limited range’ of sports equipment. Its
financial year‘end is‘3.1.March. RFA’s board is considering replacing one of. its:machines-(the’RF13) which is
employed in the: manufacture of golf balls:. It:is estimated that.the RF13: has two more ‘years ‘of ‘production
left, but the: new. machine (which, if’ purchased, would. be known as the .RFI7Y has an. improved. technical
specification and could produce a higher quality ball which, itis felt, would generate:an.increase in sales. The
new. machine would be: bought ‘at. the end of. the-current financial :year, ‘i.e. ‘3.1 March 20X9 and would cost.
CU1.7 million. ‘Technological advancement:in RFA’s:market-is rapid and.its: board therefore:has plans to‘use
the:new machine for:a maximum:of three years to 31. March 20'Y2. The estimated sales figures:(expressed in
March.20X9 prices).from.using the'two machines are:
Existing machine (RF 13) New machine (1777)
০0000 CU'000
Year ended 31 March 2070 620 1,150
20Y.1. 600. 1,450
20Y2 0: 1,320
Variable costs.
The average variable: costs of the. two machines (as a percentage of sales revenue in 20X9 prices) are as
follows:
RFI3 REI7
% %
Raw-:materials 10 12:
Other variable costs 25 18
Labour costs
RFA uses contractors to-operate its machines.. The cost is CU150;000 ‘per annum. If the RF17 is. purchased
annual savings: of. 12% will be’ made :on ‘these contracted labour costs. All. of: these: costs are expressed in
March.20X9 prices.
Estimated annual inflation rates:(April'20X9. to March 20Y2)
%
General (applies to RFA’s.sales:and other variable costs above) 3
Raw:materials 5
Contracted labour 2
Working: capital
RFA’s policy is' that, at: the ‘start.of each financial year, it has working ‘capital in place that is equivalent to
‘10% (in money terms) of. the estimated sales for that ‘year. RFA assumes that all working capital. is
recoverable:once the-equipmentiis sold.
64) | ‘Financial Management

Capital allowances
REA?s machinery attracts capital allowancés, but.is/will be:ex¢luded from the general pool. The RE13 has a.
negligible tax written. down ‘value and it has a current tesale value of: CU100,000. 103 use ‘would be:
discontinued as, soon as the RF17 was purchased. RFA’S board believés that the 1২13 would ‘have a resale
value of CU80,000 (in money terms) at 31 March 20Y1 and ‘that the: RFI7 would have 8 résdle value of
CU200,000 (in, money terms).at'3.1 March 202.
Assume: that ‘this means that: the: RF17 will attract’ 18% (reducing balance) tax: allowances iin, the Year of
expenditure and in évery subsequent year of ownership by the company, except’ the final year. In, the final
year, 106 difference between the machinery’s written down, valué fortax purposes and its disposal proceeds
will 66 either (i) treated by the company. as an additional tax:relief,. if the disposal proceeds. are less than the 6
tax’ writteni down value, or (ii) be treated as.a balancing charge to the company, if the disposal proceeds. are ra
more than.the’tax written down:value. A
Corporation tax 7
REA assumes. that the: tax, rate will remain, at 21% per annum and is payable -in the same. year, as the cash u
flows; to which it relates. R
Cost-of:capital
RFA uses a.money cost of:capital of 1.1% per‘annum for appraising its-investments. ja
Requirements
(a) Advise.RFA’s management whether itis beneficial, in;net-present value’terms, to acquire the.RF17 and,
‘dispose:of the 1২113. (20 marks)
(b) Compare sensitivity analysis:and expected’values:as methods of dealing with uncertainty.
(4 marks)
(24 marks)
40 STICKY FINGERS LTD
After ‘paying CU15,000 for a preliminary’ investigation, the costing department of Sticky Fingers .Ltd was
3৮160 calculate’the cash flows forthe following investment projects.
‘Net cash flows. to tr to t3 ‘ty
Iminédiate
outlay
CU'000. CU'000 ০0000 ০0:000 ০0000
Project A (1,500) (500) 1,200 600: 300
Project:B (2,000) (1,000) 2,500 2,500 2,500
ProjectiC (1,750) 500 1,100 1,400 1,000
Project'D (2,500) 700 900: 1,300 300
Project E (1,600) (500) 200 2,800 2,300
Note. All.cash, flows take place atthe end.of:the year.
You have only’just taken up the ‘appointment:of financial analyst. The cash:flows from the various projects,
as shown above, have been: given to you with a‘memorandum, from, the:managing:director outlining your, first
task.
Requirements
Advise’the company in the:following circumstances.,
(a) The company's cost: of. capital.has' been. calculated as 15%..Cash is freely available and all projects are
independent and divisible. Prepare calculations showing which projects should be.accepted. (3 marks)
(b) The amount of. cash. available for investment at time’ 0 has been. limited ‘to CU3 million. None of. the
projects can.be delayed.
Which ‘projects should be accepted? (3 marks)
(০) The amount of cash available: for investment at ‘time I has been limited to. CU200,000. None: 01 the:
projects can.be delayed. There'is now no.rationing‘at.time 0.
Which projects should be accepted? (5 marks)
‘Investment appraisal: | 65}

(0) The situation is as in, part (6) except that now all projects পাও independent but indivisible, and, CU3:5
imillion is.available..
Which projects should now be accepted? (2 marks)
(13 marks)
41 IGLOOLTD
Igloo Ltd has identified the:following. investment projects.
fg fi. 2
Immediate Time l Time, 2:
outlay
০0000 CU'000 CU'000
Project:A, (100) (100) 303.6
Project'B (50) (100) '21.8.9
চা0]1০০(0 (200) 100 107:8
Project.D (100) (50) 309.1.
Project, E (200) (50) 845.4
Requirements
Advise:in the following circumstances.
(4) The company faces a perfect;capital market, where:the. appropriate discount;rate-is 10%. All projects are
independent and divisible:
Which projects should the firm accept? (2 marks)
(b) The:company faces capital rationing. at’ to.. There: is. only CU225,000 of finance available. None of the
projects can. be.delayed.
Which projects should the:firm accept? (2 marks).
(c) The situation is as in part (b) above, except that you are. now informed that projects’ A.and B are
mutually-exclusive.
Which projects should now be accepted? (2 marks)
(0) The solution is as in part-(b) above, except that you are.now told that all projects are-independent: but
indivisible.,
Which projects’ should be accepted? What'will betthe maximum NPV available to the company?(2:marks)
(e) All projects are independent. and divisible. There is capital rationing att, only. No project can be
delayed or brought forward. There.is only'CU150,000,of external finance available 200.
Which projects should be accepted? (3 marks)
(11 marks)
42. STAN BELDARK
Stan, Beldark is a wholesaler .of ‘lightweight: travelling aids. His company employs-a.large number of sales
representatives, cach of, whom is supplied with a company car. Each, sales ‘representative. travels
approximately, 40,000 miles per annum. visiting customers. Stan wishes to continue: his present policy of
always buying new cars forthe sales representatives but wonders whether the present policy of replacing the.
cars, every three years is optimal. ‘He believes, that keeping the cars longer than three. years. would result in
unacceptable. unreliability and wishes to. consider whether a replacement period ‘of either one year. or. two
years would be better than the present'three year period. The-company's fleet of cars,is due-for .replacement.in.
the:near future:
The cost:of a:new car, at current: prices, is-CU5,500. Resale values of used cars, which have:travelled similar
mileages ‘to those of Stan's, firm, are CU3,500 for a one-year-old. car, CU2;100 for a two-year-old. car and
CU900 for a three-year-old car; all.at.current prices. Running costs at current:prices, excluding depreciation,
are:as follows:
66} | ‘Financial Management

Road’fund licence Fuel, maintenance
and insurance repairs, etc.

During:first year of car's life 300° 3,000

During:second ‘year of.car’s life 300 3,500

During third year of car's life 300 4300

‘Stan uses a discount rate of. 10% when making such.decisions.

Running costs and-resale: proceeds’ are paid or received on the last-day 0016 year. to which they relate. New

carstacquired for use:from the start‘of year 1 are’purchased on the last.day-of the: previous’year., ডে

Requirement. A

Prepare calculations for Stan. Béldark showing: whether he should ‘replace the cars of sales representatives (P

every‘one, two or'three years, (7 marks) v

Note. Ignore ‘taxation, 8
43 TALEB'‘LTD

Taleb,Ltd 1s.a manufacturing company ‘which makes a wide range of products..One of, these, the ‘Bat; requires [a

the-use. of'a special Dot machine. The company's present:policy ‘is to. replace each:Dot:;machine. at ‘the end of

its physical productive life of four. years. The directors are now: considering:whether. to replace the machine

more: frequently than once-every four years in view of the fact that:its productive capacity declines as it gets

older, and potential. sales, of ‘Bats are lost. There~is insufficient. demand for the company's Bats to justify. the:

purchasé ০63 sécond Dot-machine.

Taleb,Ltd charges a selling’price.of CU0.12 per Bat, at which price:it.is able ‘to sell up to-500,000 per annum.

Variable costs, excluding machine depreciation, and running costs, amount to CU0.04 per Bat. Details of

productive capacities.and running costs (including maintenance) of the Dot-machiné are:as.follows.

Year of machine's life Productive capacity Rimning costs

(Bats) ‘CU

First 500,000, 6,000

Second 500,000 6,500

Third 400,000 7,500

Fourth: 400,000 9,000.

Annual running costs are independent of the number of Bats manufactured.

The directors wish to continue’ their present, policy of always buying new Dot machines at a price 0

CU60;000 each., Resale values of Dot machines ate:CU40,000.for one-year-old machines, CU25,000 for two-

year-old machines, CU1.0,000 for three-year-old machines and zero for four-year-old machines. The company

provides-dépréciation 6n_all its‘non-Current assets’ using, the straight line:method.

All costs. and ‘revénues are’ paid or -féceived in cash, at ‘the end of the year, to which ‘they relate, with the

exception Of: the:initial. price of ‘the Dot machine which is paid:immediately on, purchase. Taleb Ltd has an,

annual cost of capital of 10%..

Requirement.

Prepare calculations for. ‘the directors of Taleb Ltd showing whether they should ‘replace the .Dot: machine

every'one, two, three or four years. (10 marks)

Note. Ignore.inflation and. taxation.
Now. go. back: .to the Learning: Objectives in; the Introduction. ‘If you are. satisfied, you. have achieved. these
objectives; please:tick them off.

‘Investment appraisal: | Gi

Aawers (to lintcraciive questions
‘Answer to Interactive.question’1
(a) :
Fime Cumulative cash flow
cu
0 (500,000)
! (430,000)
2 (360,000),
3 (280,000)
৫ (180,000)
5 (80;000)
6 40;000 .. Payback: 5:67-years
(b) Profit calculation:
cu
‘Total.cash.flows:from.operations 540,000
Total. depreciation (150,000),
Total profits 390,000
-Averageprofits (+6) = CU65,000 pia.
Average investmentcalculation.

শাল = 15.38%
425 °
(০) NPV @ 12%
Time’ Discount Factor ‘PV.
0000 রন 0000
0 (500), 1.000 (500.00)
1 70 0:893 62.51
2, 70 0.797 5579,
3 80 0:712 56:96
4 100 0.636 63.60
5 100 0.567 56.70
6 (350:+ 120) 470 0:507 238.29 _
NPV 33,850
(0) NPVat 15% pia.
Time: Discount Factor PV
GU'000 - 00000,
0 ৫০০) 1.000 ($00.00)
1 70 0:870 60.90
3 80. 0.658 52.64
4 100 0.572 57,20
5 100 0:497 49.70
6 470 0.432 203.04
at' 15% NPV = (23,600).
at 12% NPV = 33,850
_ 33,850
IRR ০12+ ১3,850 +23600 05-12)
= 13.8%
‘Answer. to Interactive question 2
Merits) Rank}
Payback period ০ Simple.to understand. ০ Unsophisticated Useful.as an:initial
68} | ‘Financial Management

© Quick for‘initial ০ Noaccountis taken of _ filtering device
screening of projects ‘the time value of
. . money
০ Considers risk.(very
crudely) ° .Cash flows
recéived/paid. after
‘payback: are-ignored
Accounting:rate of return © Use of profit:consistent ৩ ‘Notconsistent with Unlikely-to:be useful as a
with ROCE ‘and EPS: wealth maximisation decision:making tool
০ Use of:balance sheet ০ No accounts taken of ডে
values (asset. backing) ‘time'value-of money “4
‘© Relative score.is easy ০ .Percentage’figure'may A
to understand give:misleading-advice. P
when.choosing v
between ‘alternatives: 8
০ Profits can be
‘manipulated.
Net:present value ০ Takes into account'the © Theneed toéstimate a. Technically superior. 2
time value of money cost of capital technique:
০ Gives an.absolute ০ ‘Difficulty in. obtaining:
measure, allowing for -all relevant
comparison_of: projects: costs/benefits
০ Considers all cash. ৩: -Assumes cashflows
flows of projects: occur at.annual
intervals
Internal rate of return ‘@ Takes into accountthe © ‘May conflict with, Easier to-use:and
time value of money. NPV decision communicate. practically
‘© Represents a ০ Assumes cash
breakeven. point so ‘feinvested at IRR.
does not néed,an exact
cost of capital
‘© Considers all.cash.
flows of: projects:
The above example. emphasises the idea of progression — the: techniques’ introduced at knowledge level ‘will be
applied here to solve:real world problems.
‘Answer.to Interactive question 3
to ti aby ty ty
CU CU - CU CU CU
Sales 100,000 110,000 121,000 133,100:
Working capital required 15,000 16:50 18,15৷ 19,96: 0
Cash flow. (15,000) (1,50( (1,65( (1,81! 19,96
Now the.only‘alternative-use for the-matérial 15100 8911 it for scrap. To'use:50 ‘tones on the contractis to give'up the:
opportunityof selling it‘for'50:x-CUI50 = CU7,500. The:contract should therefore be charged with thisamount.
Answer to Interactive question 5
The relevant cost of 25 tonnes is CUISO per tonne. ‘The organisation must then purchase 4 further:
25 tonnes-and, assuming this is in the near future, 10-11-0050 00210 per tonne.
The contract’must be charged with:
25 tonnes @ CU150 3:750.
‘Investment appraisal: | ®

25 tonnes @ 0210 5,250.
9,000.
Answer to Interactive question 6
What revenue is:lost if the-labour’is transferred to the project from doing nothing? Nothing,
The relevant:cost*is zero.
Costs‘and revenues of proceeding with the. project.
CU:
0) Costs to-date of CU150,000.are sunk ‘costs, therefore.ignore.
(2) Materials — purchase’ price-of CU60,000 is.also’sunk.
There is.anopportunity benefit of the disposal costs saved.. 5,000
(3) Labour.cost—‘the diréct.cost.of CU40,000 will be-incurred. regardless of
whether the ‘project:is undertaken.or:not:— and So is:not.relevant.
Opportunity cost-of lost contribution = 150,000 — (100,000 -40,000) (90,000).
The absorption of overheads is irrelevant —it'is merely
an apportionment-of-existing'costs which 00 not.change,
(4) Research: staff costs
Wages for the year (60,000)
Increase in redundancy pay"(35,000 — 15,000) (20,000).
(5) Equipment
Depfival;value-if used inthe project-= disposal value (8,000)
Disposal proceeds:in, one year 6,000.
(All, book: values and depreciation figures are irrelevant)
(6) General building services
Apportioned costs: —“irrelevant
Opportunity’ costs. of rental forgone (7,000)
(174,000)
Sales value of project 300,000.
Incréaséd contribution: from: project 126,000.
Advice. Proceed-with the: project.
‘Answer to Interactive question 8
The recoverable amount: is the CU900 সাং (which is higher ‘than,the CU800 economic value). As this is lower
than the-CU1,000:replacement cost, CU900 is:the:deprival value.
‘Answer to’ Interactive question 9
: t0 tl, 2:
CU CU CU
Net: trading revenue 5,000 ‘5,000,
Tax '@ 21% (1,050) (1,050)
Asset (10,000) 6,900
WDA.(W). 378 310 (37)
Net-cash flow (9,622) 4,260 10,813
Tax computation
PROFITS 19 ‘ty ‘ty
—— IN PRIOR——+ |
YEAR
+70) | ‘Financial. Management

০ /১5320010113960 31 [া6020%0 ০ Asset scrapped 31 Dec 20X2:
© ‘First WDA will be'set off against e No WDA in year of‘sale
profits earned in y/e 31 .Dec:20X0 -— balancing adjustment instead
০ First:tax-reliéf-at‘tg
Tax-relief at ‘Timing:
CU 21%
31 Dec:20X0 Investment in asset 10,000.
WDA @ 18% (1,800) 378 10
:8,200
31 Dec:20X1 WDA @ 18% (1,476) 310, tl
6,724
31 Dec.20XK2 Proceeds 6,900 ডে
Balancing charge’ (176) (37) 2 A
|
v
রা B
o _-Asset'value.dropped 10;000 — 6;900 3,100 R
© WDA.claimed 1,800 + 1,476 (3,276)
০ ~—sWRelief:réclaimied, (clawed back’) 176.
১ | ১১ রা F
Answer: to Interactive question 10;
a 10 tl 2
CU cu cu
Net‘trading-revénue 5,000 5,000
Tax @ 21% (1,050) (1,050).
Asset (10,000)
Scrap proceeds, 6,900
Tax savings on WDAs (W). 378: 273
Net’cash flow (10,000) 4,328 11,123
WORKING
Tax computation
t, রা t, t
PROFITS
e _ Asset:purchased 1. Jan:20X1 which ° Asset sold’3.1.Dec 20X2.
15 effectively-(for discounting:
‘purposes) the same.as 31 December,
20X0,,ie.ty
= - First WDA will be-set off against ০ No WDA in. year of ‘sale:
profits.earned in year I’ (tp > ty) — balancing adjustment instead
© First tax-relieftat:t,,
‘Tax'relief at Timing
CU 21%
I Jan 20X1 Investment in asset 10,000
31 Dec. 20X1 WDA @ 18% (1,800) 378 th
8,200
31 Dec:20X2 Proceeds 6,900
Balancing allowance: (1,300) 273 ty.
‘Answer to Interactive question:11,
. to tl t2. 3
cu CU CU CU
Invest (10,000)
‘Investment appraisal: | Al

Returns inflated at 7% 5,350. 53725 6,125
Net CF (10,000) 5,350 5725 6,125
DF @ 10% 1. 0.909 0,826 0.751.
PV (10,000). 4,863 4,729 4,600,
NPV =:CU4,192.
‘Answer, to Interactive -question 12’
(1) Galculate effective:rate:
(0 +:m) = (1 +e) (1 +s)
11 = 072 (1.08)
০ = 1.9%,
(2) Discount perpetuity using:the effective rate:
10,000 _ 00526,316
0.019
‘Answer to Interactive quéstion: 13.
Replace after two-years
Cash Discount:factor Present
Time (Narrative flow @ 10% value:
CU CU
0 Purchase (20,000) J (20,000)
1 Running costs (5,000) 0:909 (4,545)
2 Running costs (5,500) 0:826 (4,543)
2 Scrap proceeds 13,000 0.826 10,738
বিল (18,350)
an 8,350 £২8,350
Annual equivalent = ~ 2yeas@10% _ 1.736 =:CU10,570
Replace-after:one year
Cash Discount, factor Present
Time ‘Narrative flow @ 10% value.
cu CU
0 Purchase (20,000) 1 (20,000)
] Scrap proceeds 16,000 0:909 14,544
‘NPV = (10;001)
Annual equivalent = £10,007 = £10,001 =CU11,002
AE year @10% 0.909
The machine should be replaced after-two years because the costiis lowér'in. NPV terms.
Answer to Interactive question 14:
Project NPV = outlay. Rank
A 100,000:+ 50,000 =2 3
Cc 84,000:+10,000 = 8.4 1
D -45,000-+15,000 = 3 2
Project;B is;,réjected because of.its,negative NPV.
Plan:
NPV Funds
721 | ‘Financial Management

cu CU
Accept'C 84,000 10,000.
Accept’ D 45,000 15,000
‘25,000
Accept'2A. 50,000 25,000
179,000 50,000:available:
The solution assumes it is possible*to actept-half of project A, ie projects are perfectly divisible so that half-the
outlay gives-half-the NPY, etc.
‘Answer, f0 Interactive question 15' :
Considering X,Y and Z independently A
Project NPVoullay Rank P
x 25,000. + 100,000 = 0.25 i v
Y¥ 11,000 + 50,000 =.0.22. 2 B
Z 8,000 + 40,000 = 0:20 3 R
. Project X using all CU100,000 available, NPV :‘CU25;000. দা
Considering: 0010 Y-+:Z 2
Project. NPV = outlay ‘Rank
x 25,000 + 100,000 = 0.25 2
Y+Z (11,000 + 8,000 + 4,400) + (50,000 + 40;000):=:0:26: 1
Plan:.
‘NPV Funds
cu CU
Accept: ¥ +-Z. 23,400 90,000
Aéceptioné tenth of X 2,500 10,000
25,900 100,000
.. Accept Y +.Z + one:tenth.of X
Traditional accounting-based measures’ of management: effectiveness,, like the return on capital employed ratio
(ROCE) and 016 earnings per share value (EPS), have been criticised ‘for not::focusing sufficiently. on what,
businesses ultimately:seek to.do, namely to generate wealth.for their. shareholders.
The :problem. with the accounting ‘measures ‘is that they tend 00 focus on sales and profit increases, not on value
‘generation..
For example, it is always:open to a business’to increase its ROCE and EPS, at-least in the’ short:term, by taking on.
more'risky activities. Such activities may well have the'effect of reducing value.
The increasing emphasis on the wealth of the shareholders as a.corporate: goal, has led to the emergence. of:ideas
like shareholder value analysis (SV-A), SVA-is based on-the totally logical principle that 006 value of the business
overall is-equal'to‘the sum of the present values (PVs)-of all ofits ‘activities, The-shareholders' financial-stake in the:
business is. the ‘value of the business, less: the: Value of its outstanding debt., Thus if the ‘value of the PVs: of the
various activities of. the. business can be increased, this should mean greater. value for ‘shareholders; either to be
paid outias dividends.or.reinvested in.other projects that will,;in‘turn, result-in still more:shareholder value.
‘Investment appraisal: | +73)

Answers to ৩0033)
a CPV. = ‘CU(150,000 44,000) —(CU4,000 x 0.826)
= CU150,696
TV = CUI50,696 x 1.21,
=. CUI82,342
2 ty (520,000) x 1 (520,000)
t.20,000:x:0.497 959
> = €U244,120.
ty-5 340,000 x 3.352 1,139,680
to-4:(100,000) x (1 -+.2.855) (385,500)

to t to ‘t3
CU'000 CU'000 CU'000 Cu'000
Sales,in the year 200 220.0 242.0
Working capital 20 22.0. 24.2
WC cash. flow (20) (2.0) (2.2) 24,2
Discount.factor 1 0.833 0.694 0.579
Present value (20) (L-7) (1.5) 14:0
NPV =(CU9,200)
=(CU9,000) rounded.
4 Has to:be-retained ‘for use on other contracts .:. :nil cost.
5৩ The original‘purchase: cost of Q is‘irrelevant as it is sunk.
The choiée:is therefore to sell Q for CU4,000 orto use itin project Y'to yield contribution of.
CU10;000 - ০৮5,000 = CUS,000.
Hence choose project. Y, the relevant cost being CU5,000:
6 (3) Historic:cost of CU2,750°is sunk, therefore irrelevant.
(b) Used as substitute*for XB.
cu
Purchase‘cost saved (100°x'CU22) 2;200
Less Conversion cost (75)
(c) Resale value = 100 CU20
= CU2,000
Therefore relevantcost:estimate = CU2,125.

‘CU
Market*value'2 x CU8,000 16,000
Current resale valué CU16,000 x 85% 13,600
The opportunity cost..is the, value of the next best: alternative forgone, which..is the sales proceeds of
‘CU13,600.

CU.
Material X
1,000. kg in inventory could’be:sold for 4,000
500 kg‘must-be purchased for 3,000
Material Y
Since:it:has:alternative: uses, ‘it must_be:replaced.for 20,000
27,000
174] | ‘Financial Management

9 The:deprival value-is
Lower of
Replacement Higher of
cost:CU2,200 ON
Disposal value Economic:valué FA
CU'2,000 CU(2;200-- 100) =
CU2,100 A

Therefore relevant.cost of.ZX is CU2,100:(the:net saving to the company‘on:material RP). B
R
10. If we:do not go ahead with the ‘project the existing material will. be ‘stored with. an incremental, future. and
cash.cost-of 00200, (It-would-not be sold for:CU3,900:only'to be:replaced-a month later at'CU4,300). a
If we go ahéad with the project the:existing inventory-will be used. AS-itig in constant use, then we.follow the
cheaper option and réplace it immediately at: 004,000. Storage costs of CU200 aré not: avoided and are:
‘therefore not incremental.as a.result of the decision and aré:not-rélevant.
The relevant future, incremental cash cost is, therefore 016. replacement cost, of the inventory, which 713
CU4,000.
1.1 The deprival value:is
Lower of
Replacement Higher. of
cost CU10,000 oN
Disposal value Economic-value
GU5,000 CU7,500
Therefore deprival, value:= CU7,500
12. The deprival value.is
Lower:of
Replacement cost Hi gher of
CU(2,200:+:2,000 + 400 =cu:4,600 IN
Dis posal value Economic value
CU:7,000. ?
‘Investment appraisal: | +75}

(Thé ecotiomi¢ value is 16 Known, but it- is. irrelevant!. since replacement cost is lower than ‘the disposal
value.)
13. 2x CU4,20 + 3-xsCU0.40 =:CU9.60

cu CU
Price 10,000
Materials 3,000
Labour 3,000
Variable-overhead 1,500
Fixed overhead 500
(8,000)
Benefit from order 2,000
26. ৩
Lost contribution 21713 ১5500 hrs (150)
Net profit 500:

ওম. ছা) Capital ‘Tax 10%
allowance. saved factor RV
CU cu cu CU
90,000
(16,200): 16,200 3,402 0.909: 3,092
73,800.
(13,284): 13,284 2,790 0.826 2305
60,516
(10,893) 10,893 2,288 0.751 1;718
‘49,623
(25,000)
24,623 24,623 5,171 0.683 3,532
PV of tax:savings 10,647
16. The investment.is:made:on 1 April 20X6, so CAs can-first be‘set off ‘against profits for the accounting period
ended.31 ‘March.20X7. The tax cash saving will therefore be at:31.March 20X7, or'time 1.
Tax
Time Date saved time
CU: CU
0 1 April 20X6 2;000,000
1 31 March 20X7.
WDA (360,000) @ 21% =75,600 |
1,640,000
2 31 March 20X8
‘Sale proceeds (500,000)
BA 1,140,000 @ 21% = 239,400 2
Present value = (CU75,600 x 0.909) + (CU239,400 x 0.826)
= CU266,465
+76) | ‘Financial Management

‘17 Savings are:discounted at.an effective (‘real’) discount raté of 10% as itis advantageous 10188 non-inflating
cashflows (annuity).and the:annuity tables/formula can_be applied.
(1 +:money rate)=:(1 + effective:rate) x (1 +inflation. rate)
(1: 0.155) = CL + 2) x(1#0.05)
(l4-e).= 1.155/1.05 = 1.1
The effective-discount.rate:is 10%
We:riow 11960 to find the non-inflated savings resulting from the-saved labour hours. The:current semi-skilled
labour raté ig CUS. This is without-the-effects of inflation. ডে
PV 01958111803 = 20,000.hours 0.8. x:CU5 x 6.145 (CDF 10 years:at: 10%) tA)
= CU615,000 A
-P
v
‘18 B
R
Time Cash flow DF at.21% PV
CU CU SS
0 (50,000) 1, (50,000) 2
1 33,000. 0.826' 27,258
2 36,300 0.683: 24,793:
3 39,930 0.564 22,521
3 15,000, 0.564 8,460.
NPV 33,032
Present value, using-money cost of’capital, is €U33,000 (to the nearest CU000).
Using 'the.formula. 1+ r= “Tah the money:-cost of*capital is 21%. The, DF is: obtained using Gan
ti ~ “ (140
The same.answer could be obtained. by applying the real cost of-capital to flows expressed in current.terms.

0 ‘tL, 2. t3
CU'000 01000 GU'000 CU'000'
Equipment: (400-00)
Revenue - 900.00 945.00 992.25
Labour - (550.00) (605,00) (665.50)
Materials (350.00) - — -
(750:00) 350.00 340.00 326.75
PV @ 15.5% (750.00) 303:03 254.87 212.07
‘Net present value.@ 15.5% = CU19,970,
20. MoneyCofC — = [(1-10%%: 1.07) - 1] x:100 = 17.7%
. 4177
Effective:rate: ——.-71| x 100 = 13.17%
ective:rates | 1.04 x 7%
1.177 7 -
সস -11 ১100 = 8.98%
( 1.08 } ~ ae
Pv (cuo00) ০০০০-১০-৪০ = 1,270
0.1317 © 0.0898
21 Money cost’of'capital = [(1.08 x 1.12) — 1]. 100:
= 20.96%
Time td ‘tl, t2
CU CU CU
Outlay (13,500)
‘Investment appraisal: | TF

Labour 7,000 7,700
Salvage 5,000
আআ _ রা 12,700
20.96%, discount factor ‘1 0.8267 0.6835
Present.value —13,500 5,787 8,680
NPV '=:CU970 rounded,

P Q R ১
NPV/CU.of capital 11630100154 period 60 220. 40. +10 100 + 30 80'= 40,
The optimal sequence isi'QRPS.
23 For individual'projects'the maximum NPV must be found basically by: trial and. error, ‘as follows:
(a) Project-H'is clearly not-viable; since it-has a negative. NPV. and requires investment at to.
(b) It is not worthwhile considering ‘project K unless its capital generated at ty is required, since it -has a
négative:NPV.
(c) There is sufficient. capital to‘undertake the remaining three’ projects without:project K and so this must
be:optimal.
NPV = 603-+ 58 +537
= CU1,198
24 Project'H is not-worthwhile,-whereas project J definitely is worthwhile. This leaves the; following.
NPV/CU at'to
Project'T. 0.30
Project.K (0.06)
Project. 0.54
Project-K.could be‘worthwhile:since the NPV lost/CU generated is 1295 than the benefit/cost ratio of projects:I.
tO Capital NPV’
CU cu
Project.J. (500) 58
Projéct.L 1,000 537
Project.K (350) (22)
185, 1,850 558
200 project.I , :
2,000 1,131
25 Model.Tevery five’years 50 + 43.794 = 17:2
3.791
Model T every eight years 50 + 4x3.7914 30 «0.62147 2.487'x 0.621 = 17.7
5.335
Model TI every four; years 40+ 6.x3.170 = 18.6)
3.1.70
Model IIT-every. six. years 70-43:5% 4.999 = 19:6
4.355
Therefore Plum Ltd should purchase model T-and replaceevery five: years.
26 NPV _ -০৮৪০,0004-00:5, 000 x.0:233 — £4,000 x-2.106 — £43,000 x.2.991x.0:579'
, 3.837
= CU43,900-equivalent:annual cost
27 MR.DIPSTICK
Note CU CU
‘Minimum tender price:
+78} | ‘Financial Management

‘1 Materidl.A 1,000.kgs: @ CU2—CU300 1,700
1,000.kgs @ CU10 10,000
| | 11,700
2 Material :B 1,000 kgs @ CUIS 15,000
ও Material.C 500 kgs (opportunity-cost): 8,000
4 — Material.D 50 litres @ CUSO | (2,500)
5 Skilléd-labour 1,000 hrs @ 025 25,000
6 Semi-skilled labour: 500-hrs @ CU22.50 11,250
7 Unskilled labour 500. @ CU12-(opportunity:cost) 6,000
Minimum tender price 74,450
Notes ৪
a) Presumably. the 1,000 kgs .in inventory would-otherwise be-sold at a net: gain:of CU1,700. This gain is. FA)
therefore-forgone as a result of using this material in the-contract. (Note, however, that-the gain, forgone A
ig less’than the.cost of buying the-extra, 1,000.kgs.) P
(2) As this. material is constantly needed, the relevant cost-is the-cost of replacing it.at;the current:purchase: u
price. R
(3) How would this material be:used if'it were not:required for the:contract?
Option 1 — Sell-itfor CU6,000. \
Option.2 — Use:it as a:substitute-and save CU8;000: 2)
‘Option ;2:is preferable. This is therefore:the opportunity cost.of using it:in, the ‘contract. (Also‘note: that:
this opportunity cost:is much less than. the:cost of buying it and is therefore the:correct:decision.)
(4) The cost of' disposing. of 50 litres will ‘be saved (@ CU5O/litre, ‘te CU2,500).. ‘Saving: this: ‘cost is a
relevant benefit:
(5) The incremental cost of paying for the.labour needed.
(6) The assumption is that'the 1,500 spare hours have:already been paid for 89016 workforce are on-annual
contracts.’ The-additional:cash flow is.therefore:the extra 500‘hours that:are needed at time and.a half.
(7) For each.hour diverted from.their‘normal jobs.contribution of CU2 will be forgone.
This together with the cost of‘paying the: workers on the:project‘amounts'to a relevant cost of CU12:per
kg. They would.not be-:hired at:CU20.per hr'as this is more expensive.
Alternatively
This typical problem can be looked at:from the point of view of‘incremental cash flows..
Cash flow Cash flow
normally with project
CU. CU
Revenue per hour 12 -
Labour per hour (10) (10)
Contribution 2 (10)
Therefore differénce in cash flow is from:positive CU2 to negative CU10, ie a-negative cost-of CU12
per hour.
(8) Fixed overheads can be ignored.as-they-are:not-incremental.
(9) Costs:of preparing the.tender are all.sunk costs and hence.must be ignored.
(10) Profit element should be ignored..
28. TINOCO LTD.
(a) NPV of new production
Time Cash flow 15% factor Present value
CU CU
0 Costof site (270,000) ‘1 (270,000)
1, Factory,-stage payment. (1,250,000): 0.870 (1,087,500)
2 Balance for factory: (1;250,000) 0:756 (945,000)
2. Deposit:for:machinery (250,000) 0.756 (189,000)
3-4. Instalment on.machinery (500,000) 1.230 (615;000)
2 Advertising. (150,000) 0.756 (113,400)
3 Advertising (250,000) 0.658 (164,500)
4 Advertising (100,000) 0.572 (57,200)
‘Investment appraisal: | 09

3-12. Variable costs (1,600,000) 3.795*. (6,072,000)
3-12. Fixed.costs (300,000) 3:795 (1,138,500)
7 Scrap proceeds 250,000 0.376 94,000
7 Deposit:for new (250,000) 0:376 (94,000)
‘8-9 Instalment on. new (500,000) 0:61.1 (305,500)
12 Scrap. proceeds 250,000 0.187 46750
12 Value 018900013 3,000,000 0.187 561,000
(10,349,850)
3-12; Sales‘revenue: 3,000,000 3-795 11,385,000
Positive net present value: 1,035,150
* DEi-i2— DF,» = 5:421 ='1.626
(b) Minimum:sélling price
Product Z:is viable provided the present value-of sales revenue.is at least:CU10;349,850.
cu 10,349,850

Annual sales revenue must be:at:least = CU2,727;233
Selling price:must be:at-least 2,727,233 = CU6.82:
400,000
29° SHAW SECURITY SYSTEMS LTD
(3) Investment appraisal schedule.— Apollo project
t0 0 0 37
Ttem CU'000 CU'000 CU'000 cu'000
Sales revenue (W.1): 2,160 2,208 1,104
Materials and’components (W2) a (756) (773) (386)
Incremental labour costs (incl overtime) (W3), (97) (99) (50)
Management salaries. (W4) (48) (48) (48)
Lost:contribution (W5). (432) (442) (221)
Redundancy costs.(W6) 120 (140)
Taxable cash-flows 120 827 846 259
Tax (21%) (25) (174) (178) (54)
Production.costs (1,000)
Working capital requirements:(W7) (243) (5) 124 124
Tax saved on WDAs (W8) 38 31 25 116
Relevant cash flows (1,110) 679 817 445
DGF (8%) 1 0.926' 0.857: 0.794,
Present. values (1,110) 629 700 353
NPV of. project = €U572;000
WORKINGS
(1) Expected sales— units at.CU200
20X6 —-(0.6'x 10,000) +(0.4-x' 12,000) 10;800 units
20X7 Expected sales (units)
8,000 রি
? 0.3.
“ '10,000
10,000, ০১
Yo 06 4,200
\ ; 2,400
টেট 12,000 7 |
টেক কর্ণ
"ক 3,000,
র্‌ ~ 11,040
20XK8 1.1,040;«.50% 5,520'units
80) | ‘Financial Management

(2) Materials and.components

t, 10,800-x CU70 756
ty, 11,040x.CU70 773
t3.5,520 x CU70 386
iC)

A
RA
v

R
a
‘Investment appraisal: | Sil

(3) Incremental labour costs and. overtime
Labour hours Labour ‘hours Overtime hours
required-by:Apollo released.by Mercury required.by-Apollo
'20X6 (10;800 x 3) 32,400 (5,400 x 4) 21,600 10,800
20X7 (11,040 x 3) 33,120 (5;520 x 4) 22;080 11,040
20X8: (5;520 * 3) 16,560 (2,760 x 4): 11,040 5,520
Therefore;:incremental labour costs
CU'000
20X6 10,800 x CU9* 97
20X7 11,040 x CU9 99
20X8 5,520:x'CU9 50
*(CU6 x 150%)
(4) Management:salaries
CU(20,000 - 8,000*) = CU12,000 x 4 = CU48,000' pa
৯ Consultancy fees saved/avoided as result-of project.
(5) Lost contribution:from lost Mercury sales
Sales:lost Gross © CPU CU'000
20X6 5,400 x CU80 = (432)
20X7 5,520 X CU80 = (442)
20X8 2,760 x CU80 = (221)
* Direct: labour costs treated as a ‘fixed! cost, since they will, be paid whether 01100 Apollo is
produced. Therefore, effect:on.cash:flow of 'lost'Mercury sale:1s.(100 —:20):=CU80 per unit.
(6) Redundancy costs
‘ty CU120,000 saved .at-ty'if-Apollo:is produced
ty CU140,000 incurred:at*t;if Apollo is produced.
(7) Working: capital requirements
Sales (CU'000) ‘tO tl. t2 3
New = 2,160 2;208 1,104
Old - 540: 552 276
- 1,620 1,656 828
15% 243 ‘248.4 124.2 _
ন. Cash flow effects of changes in-working ‘capital-requirements are:
tg ty 12 ty
(243) (5.4) 124.2 124.2
(8) Tax Saved on‘ WDAs
(21%)
Time Item Taxsaved ‘Timing:
00000 ০0000
to Production costs 1,000
821 | ‘Financial Management

(0++* WDAtT (180) 38* 0
:820
tl. WDA (148) 31* tl

(2 WDA (121) 25* (2:
3 Sale proceeds Nil
t3 Balancing allowance 551 116* 3
1. ছাট) 0118%-898011060- রি
* — Figures’to:nearest CU1,000 as‘required. by‘ question. 3
** Payment of.CU1m occurs at end of‘accounting: period (ie 20X5); therefore first. WDA. occurs v
3000. |
R
(b) .Comments on the:Apollo proposal
Based oni the above cash flow projections, the:projectishould be accepted as‘it has a positive NPV. 5
Reservations:in connection with this recommendation
(i) .Demand:for Apollo is subject to great uncertainty.. Sensitivity ‘analysis could be carried out to see
how ’tesponsive'the project's NPV is‘to ‘fluctuations in.the-expected sales volume.
(ii) ‘The: project's sales are ‘subject to uncertainty, consequently: the-Apollo:project is risky and should
be appraised using a discount rate reflecting this level of risk. The company's current WACC-1s
therefore highly. unlikely to be: appropriate. Moreover, ‘a ‘suitably-risk-adjusted discount.rate may
‘result in the project-having a.negative NPV.
(iii) How’ reliable are the estimates of costs? For example, Apollo sales may affect ‘sales of the
‘Mercury moré severely than.anticipated.
(ivy The:attitude-to risk of the:directors/sharehdlders needs to.be-consideréd. ‘Despite having ৪ positive
NPV the project may be.considered.too, risky and. hence be rejected.
(v) Have all costs associated with, the project been identified and. quantified? (Note. that the. project
has: been. ‘appraised with reference to relevant costs only — ‘sunk. costs, eg development and.
tharketing costs, have been ignored.)
30. FIORDILIGI LTD
t0 itl 2. 3 14. 15
Labour cu'000 cu'000 aan ০0000. cu 0000.
Skilled 10,000 0.5: Nil. -
10,000 x 0.5.x 20.0 20.0
CU4.00.
8,000 x 0.5:x 16.0 16.0;
CU4.00
Unskilled 10,000 %.2.« 50:0 50.0 50.0
CU2.50
8,000 x 2:x:CU2.50 ‘40.0 40.0
Materials
‘Investment appraisal: | 3 3)

Ping’ 10,000 x:2 x 28.0 28.0 28:0
CU1.40:
8,000 x 2 x'CU1.40 22.4, 22:4
Pang 46,000 x 0.5 x Al4
CU1.80:
Pong: 10,000 x 1.5 x 12.0 12.0. 12.0
CU0.80
8,000 x 1.5.x 9.6 9.6
CU0.80
Overheads
Variable 10,000 * 0.5 x 7:0 7.0 7.0
CU1.40
8,000 x 0.5: 5.6 5.6
CU1.40.
Fixed
Rent 2.0 2.0: 2:0 2.0 2:0
Rates 1.0. 1,0 1.0 ‘1,0 1.0
83.4 100.0. 120.0: 112:0 96.6 62.6
Revenue.
10,000 CU18 180.0: 180:0 180.0
8,000 x CUI4 112:0 112:0
Costs (as above) (83.4) (100.0) (120.0) (012.0) (96:6) (62.6)
Purchase:of plant (60:0)
Resale: 6.0.
Net-cash:flow (143.4) 80.0 60:0 68:0 15.4 55.4
Discount:factors at 15% 1.000 0.870 0756 0,658 0.572 0.497
Present values (nearest CU000) (143.0) 70.0 45.0: 45.0 9.0' 28.0
NPV =-+CU54,000
Therefore, accept.
84 | ‘Financial Management

ও] GIOVANNILTD
(a) Capital allowances . .
Tax;Saved Timing
at'2:1.%
cu CU
Cost 5,000
Year'0 WDA (18%) (900) 189 (0
4,100.
Year 1 WDA (738) 155 tl
3,362
৮০৪72 WDA: (605) 127 2. ও
2,757 রদ
Year 3 WDA (496) 104 B A
2,261. P
Year 4 Sale:proceeds - T
Balancing:.allowance 2,261 475: t4 [৪
(৮) Investment decision R
Cash'flows t0 tl 2 3 t4
CU গে CU CU CU জজ
Purchase of (5,000) 2
‘machine:
Tax saved 189 155 127 104 475.
through WDAs - —
Net:revenues 3,000 3,000 1,000 1,000
Tax on ‘net (630) (630) (210) (210)
revenues রা ট 7 -
(4,811) 2,595 2,497 894 1,265
Discount 1.000 0.909 0.826 0.751 0.683
factors
Present value (4,811) 2,295 2,063, 671 864
Therefore acéept the: project:.
(c) Different timing of initial purchase
PV of tax:savings:as shown above
CU189 + CUISS: x:0:909 + CU127 x.0:826 + CU104 x:0:751 + CU475-« 0.683 837
Hence PV if delayed by one: year CU837 x 0:909 ‘761
‘Difference 76
Hence,inew NPV = CU(1,082 —76)
= CU1,006,ie‘project:still worthwhile
Wisdom. ~ fine if there is a balancing:charge (delay’it!)
— not’so if there‘is a balancing allowance
32 SHAREHOLDER VALUE
(a) Business:decisions
The first statement-supports ‘the view that the governing objective of a business should,be-to maximise:
shareholder-value. A:classic view in corporate finance, this belief has, gained, much recent exposure with
the rise of shareholder, value analysis (SVA) as a business tool.. SVA suggests that all business
activities, including strategic decisions. and. performance evaluation, should, be managed with, the
objéctive of maximising-the present. value-of the firm.
The second statement suggests that.a business has.a wider duty of care to a group.of stakeholders who
have an interést in the business. Thesé needs should. be. balanced,-rather than;maximising the:needs of 4,
single:group suchas, shareholders.
Certain authors have.suggested that these views-of ‘business lie at-opposite ends-of'the spectrum: This
view arises from the.belief that stakeholder needs conflict; and maximising one group will,by necessity
thean, that other groups will suffer. This view is supported by high. profile cases such as that of
Railtrack, which.was accused of-abandoning customer saféty in the:pursuit-of shareholder value.
‘Investment appraisal: | 18০1

It is ‘true: that companies have in ‘the past made short-term, 00001001031 decisions in, an attempt: to
enhance share-price that have resulted in, other stakeholder groups suffering. Cost-cutting:and employee
downsizing'decisions would be.examples,

However, and.as long as the long-term-effects of business decisions are:considered, ‘the picture changes.

Companies that consistently destroy shareholder 3106 will find themselves starved of capital as their

investors move elsewhere,. Without capital, ‘they will not bé able to invest: in the future of their

customers, employees, etc, and these groups will suffer. To deliver value to. these. stakeholders, long~
term’ value’ will need to-be delivered also to shareholders.
(b) Shareholder value analysis

Shareholders: value the future ‘cash,.returns that their investments will generate, and will. also be:

concerned with the level of risk. inherent:in, those:investments.

The-discounted:cash flow (DCF) model is consistent-with this type:of value. It.focuses on,future cash

flows and, by discounting them at,an appropriate rate, it.takés;into account-the:investors* view of risk.

Many people. believe that. growth in earnings per ‘share (EPS) is the’ best external measure. to track.

‘shareholder value: creation. This is:not necessarily the.case,, for the following: reasons.

(i) Profit is. not necessarily the same as cash,flow; and cannot be 'spent' by investors..

(ii) Profit can be manipulated by use:of different accounting policies.

(iii) EPS is:historic focused, sunk:as:far as:investors are concerned.

(iv) [EPS growth:does not:incorporate:an adequate risk hurdle. Value is created if businesses earn more
than, ‘the cost of: equity, The only hurdle to be overcome ‘before: positive profit is Obtained is the
debt: bill.

The-SV-A. approach to business.:focuses on identifying ‘value drivers’ which, :if managed correctly, can.

increase the PV of the firm and therefore;increase shareholder value.

Thesé drivers are-as follows (choose'thteé from sevén),

(i) Sales growth rate — increasing the growth rate should generate: larger future: cash ‘inflows which.
‘could translate:into greater value.

(ii) Operating profit margin — increasing this, perhaps via better cost control, will, generate more net.
cash-flow from each extra sale.

(iii) Investment in non-current assets — if: this outlay can be reduced without limiting’ effectiveness,
cash‘will be.saved and value added.

(iv) Investment in working capital — reducing working capital. releases cash back into the business. 1
this can be done: without compromising effectiveness, value will be added.

(v) Cost of capital —reducing the: cost of.capital, perhaps via use of debt finance, will:increase the.PV
of the cash flow stream and therefore-value.

(vi) ‘Life of. projected cash flows - if. the life:of-a potential cash ‘flow. stream. can be-extended (eg. via
‘patent protection), the-larger its potential, to: generate: value:

(wil) Corporation tax rate —a lower tax,rate will leave-more cash available for thé business. However,
management's ability’to affect the’tax.rate: may be limited.

33 PACKERS LTD
NPV of contract
Final receipts = CU235,000 x (1.10)
= CU284;350
Second. year labour = CU60,000:x 1.125
= CU67,500
Value-of inventory of D 5 2,000°x.CU1.50
= CU3,000
Cost of more:D = 2,000 x CU20:x' 1.15
= CU46,000
Time 0 Time] Time:2
CU CU CU
Machinery (75,000)
801 | ‘Financial Management

Redundancy 2,000
Labour. (60,000) (67,500)
Advertising ; - 5,000
‘Material D 3,000 (46,000)
Receipts 284,350
a (70,000) (106,000) 221,850
DF @ 15% I 0.870 0:756
PV (70,000): (92,220) 167,719
Net:present'value:=:CU5,499°
-. Proceed.
34. AINSDALE LTD :
(a) Incremental NPV of:moving the factory A
Existing premises PR
i v
Lease = 450,000 + 420:000 _ 4 950,000 B
OA R
After tax ='4,950,000— ann = CU4,005,000
New premises 2
Cash:flows
At:31 Decémber 20X0 20X1 20X2 20X3 20X4
CU'000 CU'000 CU'000 00000 0000
Premises (10,000).
‘Machinery (1,000) 300
Labour (W1). 1,000 (3,000) (4,000) (3,000)
Materials (W2) 7,750 (23,250) (17,000) (12,750)
Sales (W3) ; (8750) 26,250 35,000 26;250
Redundaficies (200)
Retraining (100)
Tax (WA) 21 42 - (2,940) _ (2,205)
Capital allowances 38 31 25 21 32,
(W5)
. . (11,241) 73 25 11,081 8,627
Discount:factor-@. 10% 1 0:909 0.826 0:751. 0:683
Discounted cash flows 01,241) 66 21. 8:322. 5,892
Total NPV = CU3;060,000
Overall. NPV
Cu‘000
NPV ‘of lease 4;005
Per DCF statement. 3,060
7,065
WORKINGS
(1). Labour.costs
Unit
New Old labour Labour
factory factory ‘Incremental cost cost.
000-units 000:units 000.units CU 0000
20X1 5,000 6,000 (1,000) 1.00 (1,000)
20৯2. 9,000 6;000 3,000 1.00 3,000°
20X3 10,000 6,000 4,000 1.00 4,000
20X4 9,000 ‘6,000 3,000 ‘1.00 3,000
After'20X4 the sales: are equivalent, so:no incremental. 00909181196,
(2) Material costs
‘New: Old ‘material Materials
‘Investment appraisal: | 87]

factory factory Incremental cost ‘Cost
000 units’ 000 units 000 units CU 01000
20X1 5,000 6,000 (1,000) VIS (7,750)
20X2 ‘9,000 6,000. 3,000 7:75 23,250
20X3 10,000 6,000 4,000 4.25 17,000
'20X4 9,000 6,000 3,000 4.25 12,750
After 20X4 the sales-are equivalent, so.no.incremental.costs-arise.
(3) ‘Sales:
40%. marvin on sales is-equivalent’to a 66.67% mark-up-on cost,
Unit
‘material Material Labour: Total Margin Sales
cost’ cost cost cost. (66.67%) i
cU CU'000. CU'000 CU'000. CU'000 CU'000
2041] 4.25 (4,250). (1,000) (5,250) (3,500). (8,750).
20X2: 4.25 12,750 3,000 15,750 10,500 26,250
20X3 4,25 17,000 4,000 21,000 14,000 35,000
20X4 4.25 12,750 3,000 15,750 10,500 26,250
(4): ‘Corporation tax
20X0, 20X1 2042 20X3 20X4
CU'000. 0000 CU‘000 CU'000 CU'000
Labour 1,000 (3,000). (4,000) (3,000)
Materials 1,150 (23,250) (17,000) (12,750)
Sales (8,750) 26,250: 35,000. 26;250
Redundancies/train (100) (200)
ing
Taxable profit (100) (200) 0 14,000. 10,500
Tax. payable (excl 21 42 0 (2,940) (2,205)
CAs)
(5) -Capital allowances
Year WDA Tax @ 21-%:
CU'000. 00000. CU'000
20X0 1,000 180 38
'20X1 820 148 31
20X2 672 121 25
20X3 551 99 21
'20%4 452,
Proceeds (300)
Balancing-allowance 152 152 32
(b) Calculation of the payback period
CU'000 0000 0000 ০0000 0000 0000
Cash:flows 01,241) 73 25 11,081. 18,627
Lease 450 450 450: 450 450, 450
‘Lease tax (95) (95) (95) (95) (95)
(10,791) 428 380 11,436 8,982 355
Thus: the payback:period is three years:(assuming year. end cash. flows).
Tutorial advice:
The likelihood of’producing precisely'the correct answer for requirement (a) is low, because there are. many
opportunities to make errors, ‘major and minor. There are however. plenty of easy marks in ‘this question.and
you should.be-able to earn‘them.
Requirement (a). Make sure; you; approach the:requirement in-a logical and ‘methodical way, as this will help
build-up a,good:total of marks. A common pitfall in.this question relates to the lease-of the old premises. This
is perpetual, yet it is often.treated as if-it only lasts as long:as there are incremental operating cash flows from.
&3 | ‘Financial Management

[the move. Another common জলা তাত সা érror relates to পচ চট সালা The quéstion made |
clear that tax should be dsstimed to’be paid at the end of the year‘to which_it relates $0 be Careful not'to lag
the‘payment a year,
35 ARCADIAN PRODUCTS LTD.
(3৪) Retain existing equipment or buy. new
“Year 20X0 20X1 20XK2: 20X3 20X4
০৮000 0000 CU'000. ০0000 CU'000.
‘New plant (12,000) 2,000 C
CAs (W3): 454 372 305 250 719 ঢা]
Old plant. 3,000 A
CAs (W3) 782 P
(242) (198) (163) (133) (608) u
‘Maintenance‘cost R
‘money terms) (W1) 515 1,591. 2,185 2,814
ওম 0021601] (108) (334) (459) (591)
(8,006) 581. 1,399 1,843. 4,334 [a
‘Discountfactor(W4) 1.0000 0.8826: 0:7790 0.6875: 0.6067
Present’ values (8,006) 513 1,090 ‘1,267 2,629
Net present: value = CU(2,507,000).
Thus retaining the existing equipment would.be preferable to buying-new.
WORKINGS
(1) Maintenance costs,
20X1 20X2: 20X3 .20X4.
০0000. CU'000 0000 CU'000
Maintenance (real) 500 1,500. 2,000 2,500
Maintenance (money) 515 1,591 2,185 2,814:
(2). NP14-contributions
20X1 20X2: 20X3 20x4
CU'000 CU'000 CU'000. CU'000
Contributions (real) 2,500 3,500 3,500 2,500.
Contributions (money) 2,575 3,713 3,825 2,814
(3) -Capitalallowances
New plant,
Year ‘Tax @.21%
GU;000 CU'000
20:00 Cost 12,000
WDA. (2,160) 454
20X1 9,840
WDA, (1,771) 372
20X2: 8,069
WDA. (1,452) 305:
20X3 6,617
WDA, (1,191) 250,
20X4 5,426
‘Investment appraisal: | 89.

Disposal (2,000)
Balancing.allowancé 3,426 719
‘Old plant
Year Tax: @ 21%
CU'000 CU'000
20W8: Cost 10,000
WDA (1,800)
20W9 8,200,
WDA (1,476)
20X0 6,724
Disposal (3,000)
Balancing:allowance 3,724 782:
(90) | ‘Financial. Management

or
‘Year Tax, @ 21%
CU'000 CU'000
20X0 WDV b/f 6,400:
WDA, (1,152) 242:
20X1 5,248:
‘WDA. (945) 198
20X2 4,303
WDA, (775) 163
20X38: 3,528.
‘WDA (635) 133 ডে
20X4 2,893. FA
Disposal 0 A
‘Balancing allowance 2,893 608. P
(4) ‘Discount:factors v
পর
Year | ——. = 0,8826 R
(1+-0.10)(1+ 0.03)
(1+ 0.10)°(1+ 0.03)
(1+ 0.10)°(1+ 0.03)
(1+.0.10)"(1+ 0.03)"
(b) ‘Viability of the NP14. product:
Y.ear _ 200 20X1 20X2 203 20X4
CU'000 CU'000 CU'000 ০0000 0000
Old plant. (3,000)
‘CAs (W3) (782)
242 198 163 133 608
Contributions
(money terms) 2,575 3,713 3,825 2,814
Tax thereon, (541) (780) (803) (591)
Maintenance costs
: (money terms) (515) (1,591) (2,185) (2,814)
ডো)
Tax thereon 108: 334 459 591.
Working capital (257) _ (114) (111) 101. 281
(3797) 1,711 1,828 1,530: 889
Discount:factor’ 1.0000 0.8826 0.7790 0.6875 0.6067
(wa) রা . | রর
Present values (3,797) 1,510: 1,424 1,052 539
Net present: value = CU728,000
Thus using the existing equipment'to produce NP148.would be viable.
Tutorial note::
A common pitfall. on. this question. is confusing’ ‘real’ and. ‘money’ ‘values in, the same assessment. Either
approach ‘is equally correct, but it must be -applied consistently’ in. the same assessment..‘In practice ‘the
‘money’ approach tends to be less difficult to.apply.
In. part (a), be careful not:to.overlookthe balancing:dllowance that’ would arise should the existing equipment:
be sold.
‘Investment appraisal: | 91]

36. JUNO PRODUCTS LTD
(a) Modification decision
Timing
31 December 20X8 20X9 20¥.0
0 1 2:
Cu'000 CU'000 CU'000
Modification-costs: (8,000)
Extra contribution (excluding one:
bought-in, part) 200. units: per
annum x CU25,000 per unit (W.1) 5,000 5,000
Extra parts to be bought,
(400° 1,000):(W1) (400)
(8,000) 5,000 4,600
Tax effect at:21% 1,680 (1,050) (966)
(6,320) 3,950 3,634
Discount:factors @ 5% 1 0.952 0.907
Present. value (6,320). 3,760 3,296
NPV ='736 > 0
The-modification should take place:
(৮). Relevant.CFs if continue
Timing of.cash-flows
31 December 20X8: 20X9 20Y0: 20Y1 20Y2
0. 1 2 3 4
01000 00000 CU'000 CU'000 CU'000
Modification (8,000)
costs
Contribution 11,500 11,500 5,200 3,900
(excluding
bought-in part)
(w2) |
‘Cost of extra (400) (400) (300).
parts
Opportunity cost (600)
of. parts.
Overheads that
‘would 06
avoided if
production
ceased (lease
cost
Unavoidable) (2,000) (2,000) (2,000) (2,000)
Annual taxable. (8;600) 9,500 9,100, 2,800 1,600
net-revenues
Tax @ 21% 1,806 (1,995) (1,911). (588) (336)
Plant and
‘equipment
Disposal’ (6,000)
proceeds
avoided
Balancing
allowance
avoided. (462)
(W3)
Tax.re-WDAs if.
continue: (W3) 310 254 209 171 718
Net CFs (12,946) 7,159 7,398 2,383 2,042
DF @ 5% ] 0.952. 0.907 0.864 0:823
PV: (12,946) 7,387 6,710 2,059 1,681
NPV'=4,891 > O'therefore:continue
WORKINGS
(1) Contribution per unit:for modification decision,
(92) | ‘Financial Management

CU
Selling-price 35,000
Labour. a (4,000)
Materials (excluding the component-type that;is in.inventory) (6,000):
25,000
There-are enough bought-in parts.in inventory to make- 1,000 units.. This will cover, the: first two
years of. production if ‘no modifications. are made in the first:*year, and. 300 units: worth ‘of
production. in the second year if modifications are made. Thus an. additional 400 units of parts
would have'to be bought:in year’2 if:modifications were to take place.
(2). Contributions per unit:(excluding bought-in part) ডে
Years | and’2 First.500 units-—‘need to fake:into. account lost.contribution from other [|
products:that could have been. sold. AY
CU P
Selling price. 35,000 Tv
Labour (4,000 x 4) (16,000), BS
‘Materials (6,000). R
13,000
Additional-200 units do not affect.sales ofthe other product, therefore use. —
contribution‘per unit of CU25,000 as:in (1):above. [21
Years 3. and.4 All units.have.contribution-of CU13,000 per unit:as-calculated above.
Therefore contribution figures‘in‘total are:

১০৪1] 500 x 13-7200025 11,500
Year:2 500 x' 13-37-200:25 11,500
Year 3 400 13 5,200
Year'4 300 x 13 3,900
(3): Balancing allowance if:sold on 31 December 20X8
Accounting: period Narrative CUO000 ‘Tax:relief Timing
'20X7 Bought 10,000
WDA. @ 18% (1,800)
20X8 8,200
Disposal proceeds 6,000
‘Balancing allowance (2,200) Tax.saving @
21% = 462. t0
WDASs'if kept
Accounting period. Narrative CU000 Tax:relief ‘Timing
@21%
'20X8 B/f — 8,200
WDA @ 18% (0476) 310 t0
20X9. 6,724
a WDA @ 18%: (1,210) 254 tl,
20¥0 5,514
‘WDA @ 18% (993) 209. t2
20N11 4,521
WDA @ 18% (814) 171. 3
2092 3,707
Disposal proceeds 0
Balancing allowance (3;707) 778, 4
(০0) ‘Discount’rate:
The long-term after-tax borrowing rate is nota suitable:discount rate for thé following reasons.
০ ~—s Tt completely. ignores the views and requirements of:shareholders. The role of directors is to make
the shareholders ‘wealthy, so.a discount:rate should be used that*incorporates’their required return
or. cost of equity. Most:firms do:this by using a weighted average’cost-of capital (ACC).
e —_It-is a:tisk-frée. (or at.least a-very low tisk) discount-rate: The project; cash flows are uncertain, so.a
higher'discount rate should be“used to -reflect this. In particular, changes in risk’ - due to changes
‘Investment appraisal: | (031

in the type of activity‘undertaken of due to changes in. geating —-need to be incorporated. Again,
looking 80016 cost-of equity could help.
Tutorial note:
A good answer would correctly deduce whether it would be economically beneficial to. modify .a product
which would have the effect 01 increasing market. demand for it (requirement (a)).. It would. then ‘correctly’
assess. a, decision on ‘the cessation of manufacture. of. the products, taking account of the decision. in
requirement (a) (requirement (b)). It would ‘then. go on. to comment: appropriately on the: suitability of the-
discount.rate Suggested inthe question (requirement (c)).
For‘requirement (a) one complicated way of attacking’the requirement is to carry out two sets:of calculations,
one assuming the modification. would take place ‘and the. other assuming that. it would. ‘not. This is: a
complicated way of dealing with the modification question. which is more likely to lead to. errors. Simply
picking;up‘the cash flow differentials between each of the cases‘is a. more straightforward approach.
A common pitfall in this question is:to, omit the:cashflows associated. with:operating ‘costs and/or tax, both. of
which-varied with.the:decision.
In tequireitient (b) if you. organise your answers in a logical way ১০৪ shoiild correctly pick up the relevant
atéas, of cash flows. Make.siiré that if: you (Corréctly) concliided in requirement (a): that modification, should
take place, don't:ignore:this in part (b).
37 REXALLTD
(a) Net present value:calculations
Option.1
Time 0: I 2 3
3.1 December 20X0 20X1 202 :20X3
CU CU CU CU
Capital outlay (80,000)
Scrap proceeds: 8,000"
Net cash inflows ০০,000 74,000 88,000
Tax on.net:inflows (12,600) (15,540) (18;480)
Writing down
Allowances (W1) 3,024 2,480 9,616
Working capital. (6,000) (1,400) (1,400) 8,800
Net.cash flow (86,000) 49,024 59,540 95,936:
Discount:factor (W,2) l 0.791 0.636 0.522
(86,000) 38,778 37,867. 50,079"
NPV =CU40;724
Option :2
Time 0 I 2 3
31 December 20X0. 20X1 20X2 20X3
CU CU. CU CU
Opportunity. cost —
disposal proceeds না
01806 3) (30,000)
Balancing charge
avoided (W3) 6,300 ;
Net-cash:inflows (W4) 35,000 46,600. 58,776
Tax on-inflows (7;350) (9;786) (12,343)
Working capital (০,500) (1,160) (1,218) 5,878
Net. cash-flow (33,500) 32;790 35,596 52,311
194 | ‘Financial Management

Discount factor (W2), | 0.791. 0.636. 0:522
(33,500) 25,937 22,639 27,306
NPV = CU423382
Both. projects show a‘positive NPV. Since they. are mutually exclusive, ‘option 2 should be. preferred.
since it:-has the higher. NPV.
(b) Reservations
Reservations in basing an investment decision:on these:figures:concern-the accuracy of the data.and the
inherent assumptions.
(i) Howreliable.are’the estimates:of operating cash flows? ৪
(ii) Are ০90173063.050180-010066603 3070107118024 ঢা]
iit) 1502 %010118 capital.requirement sufficient? a
(iv) Operating. cash. flows: have allowed for inflation, These values can change significantly 10 the T
estimates of inflation. are'incotrect. B
(v) The-real cost‘of capital.is 15%. How reliable is this figure-and should. it.remain static:over; the life R
of the project?
(vi) All cash flows are assumed to arise‘at-the year end. Is this appropriate? L
(vii) Will.the tax rates assumed andthe available capital, allowances:materialise:in the future? Clearly it. 2
‘is difficult:to predict, with.certainty. the Government's future budgets:
(viii): The: ultimate NPVs are-fairly-similar:and make ‘ariy-decision taken. between:the projects somewhat.
‘marginal.
WORKINGS
(00 Option 1 - WDAs
A/c period.ended CU CU Time
31 Dec 20X1 Investment: 80,000 , নু রা
WDA at 18% (14,400) ‘Tax saved at 2.1%. 3,024 |
65,600
31 Dec.20K2 WDA at 18% 11,808) Tax saved at 21% ‘2,480 2
53,792
31 Dec 20X3 Scrap'proceeds (8,000)
Baliallowance 45,792 Tax saved at 21% 9,616 3
(2) Calculation of discount factors
Because the: cash, flows:in the question are given. in money. terms (or,..in the case ‘of the: machine
maintenance, costs that can .easily be converted into money terms) the most efficient discounting:
method is to discount net monetary values at a. money cost.of‘capital.
(Note An alternative is to convert.all:money terms into current terms and. then.discount at the real rate,
but this.would be afar less. efficient:approach and is:definitely:not:;recommended:)
Using:the.relationship
1+m= (1 +r)(1 +i) where m=money cost of-capital
r= real. cost of capital
i = inflation.rate;
then, money cost for 20X1 = (1.15):x-(1.1) —1.=.0:265, ie 26.5%
for 20X2 = (1.15).x-(1.08) — 1 = 0.242, ie:24.2%
for 20X3 = (1.15).x-(1.06) — 1 = 0.219, ie:21.9%
for 20X4 = (1.15).x-(1.04) — 1 = 0.196, ie 19.6%
The discount:factors are as.follows
Time 1-(31 Dec:20X1) a = 0.791
1.265
Time 2 (31 Dec 20X2) 1 x 1 =0.636
1.265 1.242
Time 3.(3.1 Dec.20X3) ঢাকা ক eS 2:0:522
্ 1.265 1.242 1.219
‘Investment appraisal: | 95)

Time 4 (31 Dec 20X4) 1 ৮1 ৯ _ সা = 0,437
1.265 1.242 1.219 1.196
(3) Option 2 — Capital cost:
This: option utilised. an existing. machine. The cost. to the business is the ‘opportunity cost of. the: sale
proceeds forgone at 1 January 20X1 (ie-Time.0).
However, by not selling the machine 4 balancing charge of CU30,000 x 0.21 = CU6,300 is avoided.
This. flow would have arisen on.3'1. December 20X1 06 Time 17,810 not 31 ‘December 20X0, since the
‘asset: was to be sold:on the first-day of an accounting ‘period,
(4) Option.2 — Net:cash inflows
20X1 ‘20X2 :20X3
cu CU ‘CU.
Per question (Option 1) 60,000 74,000 88,000.
Less: Additional machine: (5,000) 1.08 (5,400) x 1.06:= (5,724)
costs, =
Lost.contribution (20,000), (22,000) (23;500)
35,000 46,600. ‘58:776.
38: SOUTHSEA.LTD
(a)
20X1 20K2 20X3 204 20X5 20X6
CU CU CU CU CU CU
Incr..Rev (W1) ei 127,500 416,160 745,493, 1,131,462 1,266,750
Componenis (W2) = (59,400) (088,160) (327,084): (477,342) (513,450)
Labour (W3) * (15,000) (48,000) (84,300) (124,200) (135,000)
Cash.flows. ও 53,100 180,000 334,109 '529,920 618,300
Tax. @ 21% “ (11,151) (37,800) (70,163): (111,283) (129,843)
Investment (2,000,000)
CA.(W4) 75;600 61,992 50;833 41,683 34,180 155,711.
NC (1,924,400) 103,941 193,033 305,629 452,817 644,168
DF (WS) I 0.916 0.840 0.769, 0:698 0.633
PV (1,924,400) 95,210 162,148 235,029 316,066. 407,758
‘NPV (708,189)
On the basis of. this negative NPV, the:recommendation should .be.to reject:the investment.
WORKINGS
‘W1: Sales (units): 20X2 '20X3' 20X4 20X5. 20X6
With:new facilities 1,100 1;210 1,331. 1,464 1,500:(max.)
With:old facilities. 1,050 1,050. 1,050 1,050 1,050
11101768896 in unit-sales 50 160 281 414 450
-Revénue:
Selling price/unit: (CU), 2,550 2,601, 2,653 23733 2,815
Incremental revenue 127,500 416,160 745,493 1,131,462 1,266,750
‘W2: Components:.
Cost/unit 1,188 1,176 1,164 1,153 1,141.
Jincremental.cost: (59,400) (188,160) (327,084) (477,342) (513,450):
WS3;: Labour:
Labour (units:x (15,000) (48,000) (84,300) (124,200) (135,000)
0300)
Gross Figures would have-been as follows:(in CU):
‘Revenue:
% | ‘Financial Management

20X2 20X3 20x4 20X5 20X6
With-new facilities 2,805,000 3,147;210 3,931,143 4,001,112 4,222,500
Without facilities 2,677,500 2;73:1,050 2;785;650 2,869,650 2,955,750

127,500 416,160 745,493 1,131,462 1,266,750
Components:

20X2 20X3 20X4 20X5 20X6
With new facilities 1,306,800 1,422,960 1,549,284 1,687,992 1,711,500.
Without facilities 1,247,400 1,234,800 1,222,200 1,210,650 1,198,050,

(59,400) (188,160) (327,084) (477,342) (513,450) :
‘Labour: A

20X2 20X3 20X4 20X5 20X6 P
With:new facilities 330,000 363,000 399,300 439,200 450,000 u
‘Without facilities 315,000 315,000 315,000 315,000 315,000 |R

(15;000) (48,000) (84,300). (124,200) (135,000)

a
‘Investment appraisal: | 07]

Allowandéeés: CU cu
31:০0 20X11. Cost: 2,000,000
31:০0 20X11. ‘WDA. 360,000 75,600
1,640,000
31-Dec 20X2 ‘WDA. 295,200 61,992
1,344,800
31.Dec 20X3 ‘WDA, 242,064 50,833
1,102,736
'31.Dec 20X4 ‘WDA, 198,492, 41,683
904,244.
31:Dec 20X5 ‘WDA. 162,764 34,180
31;Dec 20X6 Bal. All. 741,480 155,711
W5: Discount:Factors:
'20X2: 1/(1..07 x 1.02) = 1/1.09.14:= 0.916
20X3: 1/1:09142 = 0.840
20X4: 1/1:09143 = 0.769
20X5: 0.769:x 1/€1.07 x 1.03) =0.769'x 1/1.1021 ='0.698
20X6: 0.769:x 1/1.10212:='0.633
(b) The obvious problem ‘is that-the negative NPV arises principally because the almost 50% increase. in
production capacity is not fully used until the final: ‘year of the project. However, the investment: in
additional. production capacity therefore: comes with the.real option of finding new customers for the
spare capacity inthe first:four years:of the contract,
This is an example of.a ‘follow-on’ (growth) option.and if this-could be achieved*thien the whole project
has the: potential to be financially‘viable-from:a shareholder’ wealth: perspective,
(০) Synergistic savings may be-achieved (administration, leaner‘management structures)
Risk:reduction (lower 'risk’‘may create a‘lower WACC)
Backward ‘vertical integration gives control, over supply. (quantity/quality)
39 REA LTD
(a)
20X9 200. 201 20¥2
t0. th 2 B
CU CU CU CU
‘New machine (1,700,000) 200,000
CA’S গো বাত 6৫4,260 52,693 43,208 154,838
‘machine
(WI)
Old machine 79,000 (63,200)
(W2)
Sales (W3) 545,900 901,765 1,442,400
Raw (79,800) (125,685) (183,368)
‘materials
(w4) | |
Other (53,560). (117,760), (259,632).
‘variable-costs
(W5)
Wages (W6) 18,360 18,727 (140,079)
‘Tax:(W7) (90,489). (142,180) (180,457)
Working’ (54,590) (35,587). (54,063). 144,240
‘capital (W8):
‘Total cash (1,611,330). 357,517 460,812. 1,177,942
flows
Discount-at 1.000 0.901 0.812 0.731
11%
PV (1,611,330): 322,123 374,179 861,076
‘NPV (53,952)
193} | ‘Financial. Management

The NPV is négative and so বা 17 should 00৮6-6৮1008860.88 this would reduice-shareholder wealth.

Cj

EA)

A

RP

v

E}

R
a

‘Investment appraisal: | 99)

WORKING
(1)
10 tl 2 3
CU CU CU CU
Cost 1,700,000 1,394,000 1,143,080 937,326
WDA. @ (306,000) (250;920) (205,754): (737,326)
18%
WDV 1;394,000 1,143,080 937,326 200,000
Capital 64,260 52,693 43,208 154,838:
Allowances
@ 21%
(2)
CU cu CU CU
RFI3:resale-value: 100,000 (80,000)
Balancing charge (21,000) 16,800.
79,000 (63,200)
(3):
cU CU CU
‘Sales REI? (real) 1,150,000 1,450,000 1,320,000
Sales RE13 (real) 620,000 600,000 0
Increase (real) 530,000 850,000 1;320;000
Taflation 1,030 1.061 1,093
‘Tncrease (money) 545,900, 901,765 1,442,400
(4)
CU CU CU
Raw. materials RE17 (138,000) (174,000) (158,400)
‘(real)
Raw. materials RF13 (62,000) (60,000) 0
(real)
Increase (real) (76,000) 014,000) (0158400)
03001]. 1.050 1.103 1-158
Increase (money) (79,800) (125,685) (183,368)
(5)
CU CU CU
Other VC REI7 (real) (207,000) (261,000) (237,600)
Other VC RF13 (real) (155,000) (150,000) 0
Increase (real) (52,000): (111,000) (237,600)
Taflation 1.030: 1:06]. 1,093
Tncrease (money) (53,560) (117,760) (259,632)
(6)
CU CU CU
Labour saying (real) [CU150;000, x 12%] 18,000 18,000 18,000.
Inflation 1,020 1.040, 1.061
‘Labour saving (money) 18,360 183727 19,102.
‘Labour cost:for extra year [150,000 x 0 0. (159,181)
1,023)
100) | ‘Financial Management

Net saving/(cost) 18,360 18,727 (140,079)
(7)
CU CU CU
Sales (W3) 545,900 901,765. 1,442,400
Raw.materials (W4) (79;800). (125,685): (183,368)
Other variable costs (W5) (53,560) (117,760) (259,632)
Wages (W6) 18;360 18,727 (140,079)
Taxable profits 430;900 677,047 859,321
Tax. @ 21% (90,489), (142,180) (180,457)
(8) C
CU CU. CU CU ra
Working -capital:required. (sales x 10%) 54,590 90,177 144,240 A
‘Investment (54,590) (35,587) (54,063) 144,240 P
(b) Sensitivity analysis considers ‘the degree. of sensitivity of forecasts. It calculates the change necessary u
for, 4 project-to break even. R
(i) 10138 simple approach and identifies those areas. which are critical to the success of a projéct:, It
enables;managemeént to decide the likelihood of the:possible outcomes under consideration. L
(ii) ‘However, it assumes that.changes’to-variables can be made-independently of other variables. 2
Git) Itignores probability:
(iv) It does not:point directly to.the:correct:decision..,
The- expected value is an average: of possible outcomes, weighted by the-probability of. each outcome
‘occurring.
0) Thus:the information.is reduced to a single number for-each choice.
(ii) However-it.may be.difficult to.estimate.the probabilities of the.possible.outcomes.
(iii) The:average may ‘not‘correspond to any of the’possible outcomes.
(iv) Theaverage ignorés risk.as it gives no indication; of the:spread of possible results.
40. STICKY FINGERS LTD
(a) No rationing
Present values.
Year’ 0 ‘1 2 3 4
Time to tl t2 t3. ‘t4
Discount: factor I 0.870 0756 0.658 0:572
CU'000 CU'000 CuU'000 CU'000 ‘CU'000
Project.A (1,500) (435) 907 395 172
Project:B (2,000) (870) 1,890 1,645 1,430
Project C (1,750). 435 832 921 572
‘Projéct.D: (2,500) 609. 680 855. 172
Project.E (1,600) (435) 151 1,842 1,316
NPV

Project A, (461)
Project B 2,095: Therefore, accepting all. projects with a
Project C 1,010. positive NPV, accept projects 8, C and-E
Project D (184),
Project-E 1,274
(৮). Single-period capital. rationing.
Project A B Cc 7. E
NPV (CU000) (461) 23095 1,010 (184) 1,274
Investment; t0 (00000) 1,500 2,000 1,750 2,500. _ 1,600
NPV/CU — CUI.05 CU0.58 — CU0:80
‘Investment appraisal: | 10 1}

Rank = Ist 3rd. = 2nd,
Therefore, accept B and 10/16-E.
(c) Single-period capital.rationing —.inflows and‘outflows, negative NP-Vs
Using: benefit:cost:ratios initialinvestment
Benefit/cost NPV per. ‘Ranking,
CUlL.invested
Project.A স্‌
1015008 ০02,095/001,000 CU2.10 2
Project C ; *
‘Project D: CU(184)/CU700 CU(0.26) ee
Project E CU1,274/CU500 CU2.55 d
Notes
* Project A. would never be accepted, because it: has a :negative: NPV and ‘uses: up funds ‘in ‘the
restricted year.
Project C: would. always. be: accepted.:since it has a positive NPV: and releases funds ‘in the
restricted year. A total of CU700,000:is then available.
*£ Project D has.anegative NPV but:releases. funds:at'f1.
Ifproject: D is accepted, this: makes an extra CU700,000 available at’tl. However, in doing. so.a
‘negative. NPV (-CU184;000) is. incurred. Thus, it is:necessary to examine: whether ‘the extra
‘positive NPV generated by the:additional investment‘finance outweighs this cost.
(1). Available capital =;CU200,000. Accept projects C,:E and.20%.B. Total NPV = CU2,703,000.
(2) If Dis accepted. the available’ capital becomes CU1,400,000 [CU200,000 + CU500,000 (from
project’C) +'CU700,000 (from.project:D)).
Accept'projects:C, D, E.and 90% B. Total NPV = CU3,985,500. This is the optimal.solution.
(0) Indivisible projects
Possible investment ‘portfolios’ aré
Bor € or E.or (C and.E)
‘The. portfolio which.has the. highest NPV .is G: and. E requiring :an. investment of CU3.35 million and,
generating CU2.3. million..
41 IGLOO LTD
(a) No:capital rationing
Accept all projects with, NPV > 0.
NPV’
CU'000
Project A + 60
Project 'B +40
Project:C - 20 ‘Therefore‘accept.A,.B, D and E
‘Project.D + 110
Project E +40
(b) Single period, capital rationing
NEN
‘Using benefit cost ratios (NPV/CU) Initial investment
NPV/CU. Rank:
Project A. 460 + 100 = 0.60 3
Project-B 440 + 50 = 0.80 2
016৮0 — 20 + 200 =.(0.10) 5.
Project D. +110 +100 = 1.10 a}
Project E + 40 + 200: = 0:20 4
CU225,000:available, therefore accept D, B,%4.A;.
(০) ‘Mutually-exclusive investments
102] | ‘Financial Management

This problem is solved'by trial and. error, using’the. rankings from (b) above.
The two alternative project combinations aré as:follows,
D,B, 371/2 % E: NPV (CU000) =110+404+15 5165
D,. A, 12:1/2 %'E: NPV (00000) = 1104+60+5 =175
Therefore the: better combination is.D, A.and 12% % E..
(0) ‘Jnteger restrictions
Again trial and.error is:required..
Possible combinations, given.the limited finance available, are‘as:follows. iC}
.A.and.B;.A‘and‘D; B.and D; or‘any:single project. A
Examining. all. the: different: whole’ project: combinations shows. that A and D produce the maximum P
amount of total NPV, the:amount being CU170,000. T
(০) Restrictions with inflows, outflows and negative NPVs 8
Recalculating the benefit-cost ratios, now using 01 outlays.
NPV/CU Rank
Project.A. +60 + 100 = 0.60 3 ia
Project.B +40 + 100 ='0.40 4
Project C — 20 + (100) ='0.20* ?
Project. D. + 110+ 50 =,2,20, 1
Project-E +: 40+ 50. =:0.80. 2
Itis worth simplifying thé problem with sonie-rational analysis.
In this casé not much can, be: done. ‘However, it may be that some projects can automatically be
eliminated (with negative NPVs.and-using up funds in.the-restricted. year). It may also happen:that,some
projects Can be automatically elected (with positive NPVs and. providing additional funds ‘in the:
restricted year).,Hete:the problem:concems C (negative-NPV' but providing:fiinds for time 1).
If project C-is accepted, this makes.an,extra‘CU 100,000 of:investment:finance 38118812300. However,
in doifig so ৪ negative NPV (— CU20,000) is incurred. Thug, one must consider whether the extra
positive. NPV generated by the additional investment finance outweighs-this cost:
‘CU150,000. of capital, accept D,.E and 1/2.A. Total NPV -=.CU180,000.
CU150,000.+ €U100,000 of-capital, accept D, E,.A, 1/2°B and C. Total NPV = CU(110,000 +:40,000 +.
60,000 20,000 — 20,000) =-CU210,000. This:is the optimal combination.
Having :found, that, ‘with CU150,000 available, the 'money dries up’ half ‘way. through, project A, it :1s
clear by: comparing’ A's NPV/CU of. CU0.60, with ‘C's (strange) NPV/CU'of CU0.20, that:every CUI C:
provides at time | increases the NPV by a. net CU0.40. It is also worth, using -C to supply funds: for
project 'B.
42. STAN’BELDARK:
Optimal:replacement period
The effects of increasing running costs: and decreasing, resale value have to. be weighed up against: capital.
cost..Road.fund. licence etc can be ignored, since Stan will always pay CU300 per year per.car.
The following table:is one-of the quickest’ ways to reach an answer..
Running: PV Cim.PV [০3316 ‘PY of ‘NPV of’ Cum EAC
‘cost of. RC of RC value RV. car discount
CU CU ‘CU cU CU CU factor CU
Life 1 3,000 2,727 2,727 3,500 3,182. 5,045* 0.909 5,550
Life.2 3,500 2:89.11 5,618 2,100 1,735 9,383 1.736 5,405.
1463 4,300 35229 8,847 900 676 13,671 2.487 5,497
* NPV = 5,500 cost + 2,727 running cost — 3,182 resale Value = CUS,045
From the-above'table-it:can,be-seen that the optimal replacement period is:every two years,
43. TALEB LTD:
Summary showing the optimal replacement policy-for Taleb‘s:Dot:machines
‘Investment appraisal: | 103)

Replacement:cycle Annual equivalent
net-revenue
One-year 8:0
Two'years 11.1*
Three years 9:8
Four years 10:3
** optimal policy. Replacement of the Dot machine every ‘two years :results in. the. greatest. annual
equivalent. net-tevenue for. the.company 06 CU11,100). and ‘therefore.is ‘the recommended :replacement.
policy:
WORKINGS
Annual production/sales (units) 500,000 400,000
CU CU
‘Annual revenue (CU0-12 per unity) 60,000 48,000
Less Annual variable.costs (CU0.04 per unit) (20,000): (16;000)
Contribution 40,000 32,000
(0). One yearreplacement.
Year 0 Year 1
CU:000 Cu'000
Machine outlay (60)
‘Scrap value 40
Running‘ costs (6)
‘Contribution 40
Net. cash-flow (60) 74
Net present'values =-60 + 74x 0.909
= 7,266
Annual equivalent = 7.266.+ 0.909
=.CU7,993
(2) Two year replacément
Year 0: Year 1 Year 2.
CU'000 ০0000 (0000
Machine outlay (60.0)
‘Scrap value 25.0
Running costs (6.0) (6.5)
Contribution 40.0 40.0
Net cash flow (60.0) 34:0 ‘58.5
Net present-values =—60+34:x:0.909 + 58.5 x 0.826
= 19,227
Annual equivalent = 19.227~ 1.736
(3) Three year:replacement.
Year 0 Year 1 Year2 Year 3
0000 গো 000 CU‘000 Ccv'000
Machine outlay’ (60.0)
Scrap value রা 10.0
Running:costs (6:0) (6.5) (7.5)
Contribution 40:0 40.0 32.0
Net-cash flow, (60.0) 34.0 33.5 34.5
Net-present-values = ~60:+:34:%:0:909 + 33.5 x 0.826 4:34:5 x 0.751
= 24.4865
Annual equivalent = 24.4865 + 2:487
= CU9,846
(4) Four yearreplacement
104) | ‘Financial Management

Year 0 Year | Year 2 Year 3 Year:4
শ0000 CU'000 CU'000 0000
Machine outlay (60.0)
‘Scrap value 0:
Running’ costs (6.0). (6.5) (7.5) (9.0)
Contribution ‘40.0, 40.0 32.0. 32.0
Net:cash flow. (60.0) 34.0 33.5 24.5 23.0
Net present: values = 60 +.34:x:0.909 + 33.5 x 0.826 + 24:5 x 0.751-+.23 x 0.683
='32,6855
Annual equivalent = 32.6855.+ 3.170 C}
=CUI0,311
Tutorial:-note::
RA
The notable-feature ofthis question.is that it:involves revenues as well.as costs.in the replacement decision. v
‘Several, approaches: can be taken but the. above is. probably the simplest: Other approaches, including the B
opportunity. Gost. of contribution forgone, are acceptable and, although, they will produce. different, figures, R
they should give-the.same ranking:
a
‘Investment appraisal: | 105}

হজ LU AU 0 ই 3S উস! পনি মা ০৯১১১, ৮ aE
ee A eee
z Scare es . a I RY —— a SRN NS ০০১৬৬ apr ২ wit aie ae Ny in Pg a
betes ক eens diay? Sees: Pore মল we ৪ OO চক
নী সা সস
Cee চা সি
Elie eat ig) Blea Le ee = Mee AE
হুদা লন ₹। —— i জা es = ee * So aN ee ahs 2
Se Ee
CHAPTER 3
Risk and decision making
Introduction.
Examination.context.
Topic List
1 Introduction to risk and uncertainty
2 Sensitivity analysis
3. Simulation
4 Expected values and attitude to.risk
5. Diversification and ‘the portfolio-effect
Summary and.Self-test
Answers to.Interactive questions
Answers. to:Self-test:
মে

Introduction
Learning objectives Tick off
০ To.understand the shortcomings of investment appraisal techniques. and how ‘these are addressed CO
practically

° ‘To take account of uncertain. outcomes by making ‘use:of expected values
© To appreciate the benefits of diversification andthe resultant analysis of risk’which is possible [||
‘© To be able‘to price systematic risk using‘the CAPM in, determining: required.rate of return
The syllabus'references that:relate to this chapter-are. 1], 3e, f, h.
Syllabus'links:
This topic is.taken forward at advanced level at a.higher. technical level, and in:the case study where. the ideas are
applied pragmatically.
Examination context
In the exam.you.may be asked to take into account uncertainty either by commenting upon the.reasonableness of
the‘estimates made, or by adjusting the’required rate of return.to reflect risk.

11121 | ‘Financial Management

1. 111010000001)0011513110 uncertainty:
Section overview
Meas e All business decisions are based:on,forecasts.

e _All forecasts are:subject:to’varying degrees of: uncertainty.
® Consideration neéds to be given as.to how uncertainty canbe reflected in financial evaluations,
There is possibly an upside to a: decision — things may. go better than expected (upside-risk:or potential), On the
other.hand, there may be a. downside where things go worse than expected (downsideirisk), Shareholders are likely
to be :risk.averse, This does not-mean’ that they’ will not-accept the’ potential. downside 00 projects (in order to ayoid
downside:completely a firm would have.to.undertake no projects:at:all) but it does mean that they will.expect to be
compensated.for'taking ‘risks,.ie:the greater the risk:taken, the higher the returns required.
Some authors-draw a distinction between risk.and Uncertainty’as:explained below.
When.makingia business decision, outcomes-normally depend_on the:happening of. various external events beyond
the. firm's control. Decisions are. usually said to be subject: to risk if,, although there may be several possible
outcomes; both these outcomes and their probabilities (ie the: likelihood of each: possible outcome actually
occurring) are known.
Forexample, the toss-of a.coin-or the roll of:the dice. |

4:22. Uncertainty, Ht
It is quite likely that. future outcomes cannot be predicted with much, confidence ‘from available data. It: is a
particularly the.case-that probabilities of various outcomes will be unknown. Ty
Decisions are usually said to. be ‘subject to uncertainty if possible outcomes are. known but probabilities are &
unknown. R
For‘example, most:business:decisions. L
Although there is a.clear distinction between these two‘problems, in practice the words ‘risk’ and ‘uncertainty’ are 31
used interchangeably:

1:3’ Methods of-dealing:with decision making under risk ‘and uncertainty: :
Risk: is best handled by using probability distributions, é¢xpected values, simulation, portfolio theory, the. capital.
asset pricing:model and risk-adjusted discount rates. All-of these are:dealt:with. later in.this chapter.
Techniques for handling uncertainty are generally more. crude: but practically just as useful.. These. include the
following:
(a) ৩০083 minimum payback.period for projects
(b) Increasing the discount raté subjectively in order-to submit the project to a higher. ‘hurdle’ rate in investment

‘appraisal.
(c) Making prudent estimates of outcomes to.a8sess the worst'possible situation,
(d) Assessing both. the best and the-worst possible situations to obtain a range.of outcomes
(e) Using.sensitivity analysis to measure the ‘margin of safety’ on input.data (see next section)
2, Sensitivity analysis
ঢা»
হী] Section:overview
৫ ০ How sensitive is the:decision.to.the:individual forecasts.made?
© Technique. is to take: each forecast. in turn and find. the. change. needed that would cause the: project. to
‘Risk and decision:making, | [11131

breakeven.
2:1, Introduction
Investment‘involves.expenditure.now ‘in. return for:a stream of futiire-returns.. The investment could be:in the-form.
‘of. physical assets (capital budgeting. or: working: capital. management) or securities. As in most: decision-making,
situations data is: based. on forecasts which.are subject to varying degrees ‘of uncertainty. The: task.in investment
appraisal involves deciding’ whether. the uncertain.cost of the-investment:is outweighed by-its uncertain benefits.
2.2; Basic principle
Sensitivity analysis is a’formalised approach ‘to incorporating ‘alternative forecasts in the project.evaluation. The
technique is to take each uncertain forecast-one by:one, ‘and calculate the change necessary for‘the NPV: to’fall to
zero, :ie: this. is: essentially, breakeven analysis in, NPV terms. Breakeven analysis. was ‘introduced :in Management
Information.
If sensitivity analysis is to be carried out, it.is often useful. to calculate net present’ values’ in ‘such a way’ that.PVs
are: found ‘of individual elements of costs and :revenues: over ‘the life: of. the: project. This means’ that the tabular
approach with headings ‘Time’, 'Cash.flow:, 'Discount’factor’, ‘Present value ''may be: preferred, unless it becomes
very cumbersome,
(32) Worked example: Sensitivity analysis
(6) Butcher ‘Ltd is considering whether, to set up a division, in ‘order to manufacture a new product, the Azam. The
following. statement has been,prepared, showing the projected profitability per unit.of:the new product.
CU. CU
Selling price 22:00.
Less 11600136601 5:00
Material 3.kg @ CU1.50'per kg 4.50
Variable overheads 2.50,
(12:00)
Net:contribution per'unit 10.00
It is expected ‘that: 10,000 Azams would be ‘sold each year at ‘the above selling: price. Demand for .Azams' is
expected to cease’ after:five years. Direct: labour and-material costs would be incurred only‘for the duration of the
product life.
Other:overheads have been calculated ‘as follows,
cu
Rent 8,000
Salary 5;000
Manufacture ‘of the.Azam would require.a specialised :machine;costing CU250,000.
The cost.of capital.of Butcher. Ltd.is.estimated at:5%:pa-in-real terms..Assume all costs.and prices given above will,
remain constant in real terms: All-cash flows would arise at the end of each year, with the:exception of the ০০১০1
the ‘machine which would be payable immediately.
Requirements
(a) Prepare:net present value calculations, based on.the estimates: provided, to show whether Butcher Ltd should
proceed with the:manufacture of the Azam.
(b) Prepare a statement. showing the sensitivity of the: net present value of manufacturing Azams fo. errors of
estimation in each-of the three factors: material:cost per‘unit,-annual sales volume, and product life.
Ignore:faxation.
Solution’
(a) NPV calculation
Cash-flows:resulting from manufacture and sale-of Azams:
11171 | ‘Financial Management

Time, Notes Cash Discount. Present
flows: factor value
CU'000 CU
0 ‘Machine (8) (250) 1 (250,000)
‘1-5 Factory rent (8) 4.329 (34,632).
1-5 Manager's salary (b) (5) 4.329 ০24,645).
1-5 “Materials cost (c) (45) 4,329 (194,805)
1-5 Direct labour (c) (50) 4,329 (216,450) ৷ 432,900
‘1-5 ‘Variable.overheads (০) (25) 4.329 (108,225)
1-5 Sales revenue 220 4.329 952,380
Annual cash flow 87
Net _present.value 126,623
On the basis of. the-estimates:given, manufacture of the.Azam ‘is worthwhile.
(b) Sensitivity to:forecast-errors.
A summary of the.analysis:is shown in.the’ following table:
‘Item Upper/lower: limit for Maximum percentage-error
project: acceptability not‘affecting ‘decision
Material cost'per Azam (W1) CU7.425 65%
Annual sales vohime (W2) 7,075 units 29%
Product life (W3) 3.2 years:(approx) 36%
The:table shows that the manufacture of Azams‘would.still be worthwhile if product.life’were to fall'to about ডে
3.2 years, or if. annual sales were to fall to 7,075 ‘Units, Or if-material costs were to increase: to CU7.43 per ঢা]
শা, These figures represent percentage. errors of 36%, 29%. and 65% ‘respectively on. the original A
estimates. If the: actual figures ‘were. within these percentages of. the. original estimates, the decision to: go [7
‘ahead would still have. been valid. 11696 are large. percentages and. ‘the net: present value is, therefore, v
remarkably. insensitive:to.errors.of estimation .in the three factors. EI
WORKINGS B
The approach‘taken.is: r
NPV.of project ও
3০115 PV of'cash flows subject to: uncertainty
ensitivity:= 7
(1) Material price:
For-the:project-to break even:
The NPV must fall by CU126,623
The PV of materials.cost (CU194,805) must rise’ by: CU 126,623:
This PV must:rise by'CU126,623-+.CU194,805:= 65%.
Annual materials:cost, and.therefore unit:materials.cost, must rise by 65%.
If this unit-price rise*were.caused entirely. by:a rise.in material price:
the:increase per‘unit would be CU4.50 x 0:65.= CU2.925
and ‘the break-even materials. price would be CU7:425 (CU4.50 + CU2.925).
(2) -Annual sales volume
The part of, NPV that.is affected by change:in sales volume:is:
(CU952,380 revenue —-CU 108,225 variable overheads. — CU216,450 direct labour,—-CU194,805. materials) =
CU432,900
(see:cash:flow table:in.NPV above)
If. the project.NPV jis to fall by CU126,623 ‘as a result.of the.sales volume.falling, this PV:of CU432,900:must
fall by CU126,623. This‘is a:fall.in PV contribution<of:
‘Risk and decision:making, | 108

NPV of project

Sensitivity-= PV of cashflows subject touncertaint y

cu 126,623

cw432,900 _ 0:2925:(29%)

The way*in which the PV of annual contribution. will:fall-by'29% is if contribution. itself-falls by:29%. This in.

turn.is the.result’if 58168 volume falls by'29%.

An.altetnative:approach to this-calculation.is to usé Contribution dnd'the annuity factor:

Contribution: per unit'=CU10(CU22 sales revenue —CU12 variable cost)

The fall.in annual contribution which gives, a.drop in NPV to break-even point (ie a drop.of CU126,623) is,

using 4,329 the 5° year annuity factor:

Fall in.annual contribution x 4.329'='CU 126,623

£'cu3,623

Fall inannual contribution= 4:329 = CU29,250

ie if ‘annual contribution falls by €CU29,250 pa'the NPV will be zero,

This is caused. by:a fall in annual. demand.of:

cu 29,250

cu 10 = 2,925 units.

16 a fall.of.29.25% of the planned'volume:of 10,000 units. The breakeven volume:is therefore 7,075:units.

(10,000.—:2,925)..

(3) Product life

The approach.to sensitivity analysis to‘find the breakeven position.is to set the NPV. equal,to:zero.

ie NPV = (outlay) + PV of inflows

Zero ='(250,000) + 87,000 x Annuity factor for productlife-at 5%

250,000

.. Annuity factor for product'life af 5% = 87,000 ='2.874

10135 necessary. to.know for.how:many years this is.the.5%:annuity factor:

From.annuity'tables

Annuity'factor:for'three years @ 5% = 2:723

Annuity-factor for four years, @ 5% = 3.546

Therefore, project-NPV ‘is zero if life:is greater than:

2.874 — 2.723

3+ 3.546 — 2.723 years (approximately) = 3:2-years

(Strictly speaking itshould be said that the project, will only change from. being:a success to-a-failure if its life

falls from four-to.three. years, as all cash flows are:assumed to be-at:the year end.)

The project's planned life is:5 years. It;can be shortened.by 1.8 years:(5.— 3.2 breakeven life): which is:36% of

the. planned life.

In a practical situation, this: process would be continued. to. determine the sensitivity. of the project: to: all

variables involved. This would include -all costs, revenues and the discount. rate (ie: finding, the: IRR. of the
m6 ‘Financial. Management

project), Managers could thén.assess which, variables were: most crucial to‘the success of the investment,.and
décidé: whether 01615 were:any ways of reducing the-uncertainty relating to'thém.
| | Interactive question‘1: Sensitivity, analysis (Difficulty: level: Intermediate]
Le The following:information applies to‘a new project:
Initial cost CU125,000
Selling: price CU100/unit
Variable:costs ‘CU30/unit
Fixed costs ‘CU100,000 pa
Sales volume 2,000-units pa
Life 5 years
Discount:rate 10%:
Requirement
Calculate the: project's NPV’and show’ how sensitive’the result is'to the various input:factors.
Sée.Answer'at the end of this:chapter,
Where annual flows are:not-annuities, the approach remains the-same (ie at what point.does the NPV become zero), C}
although the calculations are rather more cumbersome, e)
— ১, নেবেন লে A
| HS) | Interactive question 2: Non-recurring cash flows; '[Difficulty;level: Intermediate]. P
। [8 A compainy is.about to.embark. on a two year project. Estimates of relevant-inflows and outflows in.current terms u
‘areas follows: R
Year 1 Year'2
cu CU |
3)
Sales 50,000 50,000
Costs 30,000 32,000 ~
The following. inflation:rates are:applicable to the:flows:
Sales 6% pa
Costs: 4% pa
Tax is-payable at 21% on-net flows.
The net:cost'6f the project-at t0, after. allowing for capital allowance tax effects, is CU20,000:
The money-cost of'capital is 10%-pa.
Requirements
(a) Calculate:the: NPV of the: project.
(b) Assess the-sensitivity of the:investment decision to changes in:sales revenue..
See: Answer‘at the end of this-chapter.
‘Risk and decision:making, | Li

2.3, Strengths and weaknesses of sensitivity analysis’
Sensitivity’ Information will. be, presented.to management in, a:form. which facilitates subjective judgment to
decide the likelihood of the: various possible outcomes considered.
Critical Identifies those areas which are critical to.the sticcess of ‘thé project; 10015 undertaken those-areas
issues can be carefully monitored.
e For example, :if sales: volume and/or price is identified ‘as critical, further .market research
may. help. to.improve:confidence:in. the estimates
© 10018০69001 materials or bought-in components is critical, then fixed price contracts may be
‘@ possible: way of limiting the cost:and uncertainty. Alternatively, it:may be possible-to use
futures and: options to-limit 01806114813 costs
° However, :it: should be noted that these: attempts to reduce risk are ‘not. costless — market.
research costs ‘money; option premiums must be paid, ‘suppliers may demand up-front
payments.on.fixed price contracts
Simple No-complicated theory to understand, it is-relatively straightforward
Independence _ It: assumes’ that changes: to variables can. be ‘made’ independently,, eg ‘material ‘prices will change
independently of other‘variables, which is ‘unlikely. If material.prices were to rise, the firm.would
probably. increase selling price at the same.time-and there would.be.little-effect-on.NPV.
Ignorés It only identifies how far, a variable needs to change, it-does not look;at-the probability of such.a
probability change..In the:;above.analysis, 53168 volume appears to be the-most:crucial variable.but, if the firm
were facing volatile-raw: material markets, a 65%, change:in-raw material prices would’be far more
likely than,a 29% change-in:sales volume:.,
No clear It:is ‘not“an optimising’ technique. It provides information on. the basis of which decisions ‘can be
answer made. It.does.not point directly to the:correct decision.
One way in which some: of, thesé. short-comings ‘can be addressed is, scenario ‘building. If the essentials of the:
project’ being assésséd are put 011 to.a computer spreadsheet. the: analysis can be: takén .4 ‘lot ‘further., A seriés of
assiimptions can be madé about‘the variables. and the effect of each combination of 88901000118 can be assessed,
eg best'and worst cases.
3 Simulation
চলা A A
SE Section overview
১১ ০ Simulation allows:for.more than one variable-at a:time:to' change.
০ Monte Carlo simulation uses:random numbers to-determine outcomes.
০ Simulation has a:number of drawbacks as a practical technique.
As noted above, one‘weakness: of sensitivity analysis ‘is that only. one factor: at.a time-is changed ৩৪ ‘material price,
product-life.etc. In the:real world it-is likely that more:than.one factor'will change at the-same time. Simulation is a.
technique which allows the-effect of more'than one variable changing ‘at the‘same'time’to be assessed.
‘3.1, Monte:Carlo:simulation:
This is a simulation technique based on. the use of random :numbers and probability statistics to: ‘investigate:
problems.
113 | ‘Financial Management

'3:2: -Whou.uses 101,
Many companies use Monte:Carlo:simulation as an important tool.for decision-making. For example
both. General: Motors and Procter and Gamble-use: simulation to estimate both, the average return ‘and the riskiness
of new. products..
=e Worked example: Monte Carlosimulation,
ঠা Outcome Probability
| J Head 0.5
Tail 0.5
A simulation of:a coin being tossed ‘might: work as follows.
If.a random-number is selected:
Between: 0-—=:4.(5-mimbers)'then a‘tail is assumed
Between: 59 (5-numbers)'then ahead is assured
Random numbers Simulated. outcome
9 H.
4 T
3 T
7 .
7 ‘H
0 T
0 T
‘1 T
9 H ডে
H A
Thus ‘in: this Monte: Carlo simulation.of a coin being tossed :10 times, ‘heads and tails: appeared an equal number: of 1
times. v
eo Ee
33° Results ‘of'a simulation:exercise;
Imagine. that.a firm is:choosing between two projects:and, using.simulation, it has generated the distribution of; the r
NPVs for each, project: 3
The results might look.like this:
‘Frequency | .
(ie number |
-of times!NPV, .
f তুল
a“ ‘
1 ন্‌ Ne
,
' ।
1 ' "4 .
/ | \o
রণ । । !
if. 1. "I
' : 1 .
রা A, er =< B:
৷ টা
A B
Distribution of simulated NP-Vs for two projects
Project A.has the:lower average:NPV but-also is less risky (its outcomes:are less widely dispersed about the:mean).
Project.B has the higher average NPV but‘also:is more‘risky (higher dispersion.of outcomes).
‘Risk and decision:making, | 1119.

All simulation will do is to- give the firm ‘the above results. It'will_not-tell the:firm, which, is the bettér project. That.
depends oni the-itivestors’ attitude to tisk (seesection 4 below). A may be preferred to B-as there is no-chanve of it.
making a:loss.
‘3.4! ‘Advantages and limitations.of simulation.
Advantages
০ 08103 more information about the possible outcomes and their relative probabilities
০. 0015 useful. for problems which.cannot be'solved analytically
Limitations
০ —Tt.is nota technique for:making:a decision, only. for obtaining more.information about,the possible outcomes
© ~— It: can be very ‘time-consuming without‘a computer
০ Tt:can‘ prove expensive in designing:and running the simulation on.a.computer.for;complex. projects
০ ~§=Monte:Carlo téchniques-require assumptions to besthadé-about probability distributions-and the relationships
between variables, that may‘turn out:to.bé:inaccurate
4 Expected values and ‘attitude‘to risk
. a e QO
f= Section overview
S25 0 Expected values allow different outcomes to be built into the:decision evaluation.
o ‘Expected values ignore risk:
e [২15 averse:investors.require an-extra-return to compensate-for.risk.
4.1 Expected values:

The simplest way to work’ with a.spread.of possible outcomes.is to use expected values or averages..
The expected value is an average: (arithmetic mean) of’ possible outcomes, ‘weighted. by the: probability .of each
outcome:occurring.

| | -Worked‘example: Expected values’

q P P

A firm has to choose between two possible projects, the outcome:of which depend on whether the economy is: in

recession or boom:

Project A Project'B
Probability NPV. NPV
CUm CUm

Recession 0.6 — 100 —50
Boom 0.4 +250 + 200
Using expected values which. project:should be-chosen?
Project A expected NPV = (0.6.x —CU100m) + (0.4 x.CU250m) = CU40m
Project-B expected NPV = (0.6 x — CUSOm)-# (0.4: CU200m):= CU50m:
Based on:éxpected values, project B is the better project.

120) | ‘Financial Management

| cy) Interactive question 3: Expected payoff: (Difficulty level: Easy],
ee State-of:market Diminishing Static Expanding:
মা Probability 0:4 0.3 "0:3
ঢ10]০001 100 200 1,000
Project’2 0 500 600
Project’3 180 190 200
Payoffs'represent the net present value of projects in CUm.under.each market state..
Requirement
Based. on expected: values which.is the-best' project?
See. Answer at the end.of this ‘chapter.
: oS) ৷ Interactive question 4:'Uncertain sales: (Difficulty, level: Intermediate]
le Harry is trying to-evaluate a two year project-using NPV, There is uncertainty as to the level of sales (in units) in
each.of the two years:
Sales Probability Sales Probability
(units) (units) iC)
10,000 03 8,000 0.2 oo
10,000 0.8 A
(if year 11. sales are 10,000). P
15,000 0.7 20,000 0.6 v
10,000 0.4 cE
(if‘year ‘1. sales are 15,000). &
Requirement |
01. 113066০৫16৫ level of sales in. years 1.and 2 90010 3119 base his NPV calculation? P
See Answervat the-end'of this. chapter.
re) | Interactive question 5: Uncertain‘contribution, (Difficulty:level: Intermediate]
Le Imagine.in Interactive-question.4. above that the project“outlay is CU230,000 and each ‘unit sold has a contribution
of.CUI0.
Requirement
If Harry's cost‘of capital,is 10%, what-.is‘the project's expected NPV?
See. Answer at the.end:of this;chapter.
4.2: ‘Analysing:the-outcomes
In‘Tnteractive questions.4.and 5016 information, could:have been laid:out:as follows:
‘Risk and decision:making, | 12.1]

‘Overall: probability*
8,000 units. O02 ০০০০6 A.
_ (0,000 tinits, 0.8 7 0.24 18.
বউ 20,000-units ০: ——— 042 C
15,000 units. 0377
10,000urits 0.4 0.28 D
* probability ‘of year, 1 sales x probability of-year:2 sales, eg year 1 .(10,000)-and year;2.(8,000), overall
probability:is 0.3 0.2 = 0.06.
There are now. four'possible outcomes with NPVs as.follows:
Probability CU
10,000 x10 8,000 x«#.10
A 41.1 + 1.7 —CU230,000:= CU(72,975) x 0.06 = (4,379)
10,000 x.49 10,000 x= 10
B 1.1 4 1% — _ 230,000 = CU(6446) ২ 0.34 = (13,547)
15,000x«19 20,000x=10
C 11 4 11. _00230,00050071653 x 0.42 = 30,094.
15,000xu19 10,000x%10
D 1.4 + 1.7 —€U230,000 ="CU(10,992) x 0:28 = (3,078)
The expected NPV can be calculated.as: 9,090
ie exactly‘as in Example 5 but there is.now much‘more information.
Range 01 Tt can be arsuéd that- as the: expected NPV is positive, the project’ is worthwhile. However, ‘the
outcomes expécted outcome of- CU9,090 cannot océur’ if. this project is undertaken only once; because a loss
of CU72;975 or CUS6,446:or CU10,992, or a:gain of: CU71,653 in. NPV terms will result.
Probability 11730010010, the chance of'a positive NPV jis 0.42. (or 42%). The ‘chance. of: a negative NPV must
of,outcomes: therefore: be (1 —:0.42) = 0:58. or 58%. If the: project: is undertaken once only, :it does ‘not: look.
particularly attractive despite the expected. positive NPV.
Average However, if. the: project were ‘repeated: very ‘many times, then on.average-it would make CU9;090
return and 0115 would be‘acceptable.
‘4:3, ‘Advantages and limitations of expected values
Advantages’ /
The advantages Of expected Values ‘are’ that:
© The information is:reduced.to:a single number for each:choice
৩ The idea of an average:is readily understood
Limitations
The limitations-of expected "81063 316 that:
০ The probabilities of the different possible outcomes:may be difficult to:estimate
1015 possible:to.use:
— Objective:probabilities based.on.past:experience.of:similar projects; or’
wa ‘Financial. Management

= Subjéctive:probabilities, eg from the results of market research, where:the project:is very different
০ The average:may not correspond. tocany of the’possible outcomes
* Unless the same.decision-has to be made:many times, the ‘average will not-be-achieved; 10158 therefore.not.a
valid way of making a-decision in ‘one-off’ situations unless the firm.has a: numberof independent projects
and there is.a‘portfolio effect
০ 6 average gives.no:indication.of the spread.of possible.results,.ie:it'ignores risk
The problems'with applying expected values to a‘risky decision.can be illustrated by‘a gambling example.
1 ঠা) Worked‘example::Risk:aversion:
Suppose I am ‘going to toss a coin 100 times.
, Every time it-shows heads.you will pay:me:30p,.and every time it shows tails I.will pay you 50p. Would you.accept:
the.gamble? You probably would accept. The expected value-of the gamble:is as:follows:
‘Payoff
Heads 0.5 (30p), (15)
Tails 0.5 507. 25

All that'is meant’by the expected value‘is that if I toss the.coin-a large number of-times, your average win per game
is 10p. After 100 games you: are likély to have won 100 x:10p =:CU10 which.is very acceptable, considering, that’
your. maximum. loss on any game is 30p,-and the:chances of_losing anything significant are very small. রদ
The expected value computation is:relevant because: A
e = The-game is repeated, many times; and ঢু
০ The sums‘of money:involved are:small compared with your overall. wealth. a
eee. R
| BS) |, Interactive question 6:)Risk aversion , (Difficulty.level:"Easy] |
ie However, now:suppose.l offer-you a-different gamble.,J am going:to togs.a coin just once. 3
If-the result-shows, heads, you will pay me €U3,000. If tails, I-will.give you CU5,000.
Requirements ~
(a) Would you accept this gamble?
(b) What.factors would determine your choice?
See. Answer at the.end:of this;chapter.
mia A risk-averse:investor,is one’ who-requires'a higher average:return'in;order to take on a:higher level of:risk.
This principle applies just as much to decisions made by directors of companies. A project which has a positive
expected NPV, but which nevertheless carries a fair chance of forcing the compaiy into liquidation if things go
wrong, would probably. be-rejected.,
Worked example:-Attitude to'risk’
. Mr'Smith:is a:retailer.currently earning profits of CU40,000 pa. He-is considering two alternatives for, expansion:
Alternative, 18010 anew counter in.an_unuseéd.area of'the shop-which will create an additional net:contribution of
CU8,000' pa. with.a,high degree of:certainty.
‘Risk and decision:making, | 1:23)

Alternative 2. Open, a. completely new franchise operation. If the. franchise proves -sccéssful,. it will genérate an
additional net-contribution of CU40,000 pa.. The-problem, however, 18 that-even if the franchiise-is unsuccessful Mr
Smith will be committed to:minimum royalty payments:of CU20,000 pazindefinitely:into the future. There is‘a 50%
chanice of success: or failure,
Consider’ the intuitive. reaction, to such a, decision. Most business people would ‘prefer Alternative 1 because,
although the possibility of very high, contribution-does not-exist, there:is no risk of any'loss taking place.
১৩. Diversification‘and the portfolio:effect
5 Section.overview
SCAT reg eg ১০
eer] ০ Risk can be reduced by diversification.
০ Well diversified investors face:systematic’risk, which.can be: measured by a beta value.
০ CAPM gives.a return for systematic risk -.it-assumes investors:are well diversified.
০ The beta*value can be adjusted ‘to reflect gearing.
5.1, Introduction
In, the above section, the analysis of risk.and uncertainty has concentrated on alteting future returns to allow for
uncertainty of outcome. (eg using: probability distributions-of returns).
An.alterative-approach is'to allow: for uncertainty by increasing the required rate:of return, on risky projects.
This latterapproach is:commonly taken by investors.
For example, when comparing a low risk building society investment with one in high risk-equities,-a higher return
from equities would.normally be required.
Similarly; when appraising equity investments.in a-well.established: property company against:a similar investment,
in.a recently listed computer. manufacturer, a higher return would usually-be.demanded fromthe second investment
to-reflect.its higher risk;
Investors:seldom hold securities in,isolation. They usually. attempt to reduce:their risks by ‘not. putting:all their eggs
into one basket’ and therefore. hold ‘portfolios .of securities. ‘Before a risk-adjusted discount rate can, be deduced
from stock’ exchange. returns, the risks taken by investors in their diversified investment ‘portfolios need to: be
identified, -as discussed below.
5.2 The portfolio‘effect,
A portfolio is simply a combination of investments. If. an. investor puts half; of his funds -into an engineering
company and. half into a retail shops firm, it is possible ‘that. any ‘misfortunes in the engineering company (eg a
strike) may be to. some, extent offset: bythe performance. 01 the. retail investment. Tt would be-unlikely that both
would suffer-a strike in.the same period.
This effect can be demonstrated more.formally in. the following graphs. Assume :two companies, A_and B, whose
fortunes-are inversely correlated (ie-when,A.does well’B does-badly-and vice-versa).
124 | ‘Financial Management

Rate. of
return iInvestmentA
/ iretiirns
Time
‘Rate. of
return. Investment:B’
returns’
iC)
Time: 11
Individual returns a
Both investment A and.investment:B. show fluctuating returns over time..They both have:about the.same.amount of v
variability. When.A. does’well, B does badly, and vice versa. If both investments are. held, the:resulting ‘portfolio. &
will show the same ayerage:return but a greatly reduced risk, because the ‘ups'of'A cancel. with the ‘'downs' ০68 R
and, vice versa.
Rate’ of: [
return 8
(average
ofA:and:B ee ! =. __ Portfolic L
) ee a Portfolio
return:
Time
The portfolio-effect
The same:effect can be illustrated by a’simple computational.example.
Two traders sell their'goods.from.a stall on the:seafront at Brighton during the tourist season..One sells ‘ice*cream,
the. other umbrellas. Assuming there are’ two. possible states of the weather — sun and rain, when.the sun-is out the
ice cream:seller:makes a:daily contribution-of CU200, but when it rains she-only:makes'CU20.
The returns made by the.umbrella stall holder.are the same, CU200.and CU20, but.in rain and sun.respectively..
State: Sun Rain Average Risk.
Probability. 0.5 0:5
Contribution —Ice creams 200 20 110 ‘High
Contribution — Umbrellas 20 ‘200 110 High
‘Risk and decision:making, | 112.5}

Although both businesses are-profitable, the’traders are.a little 01118005-38600-00118 the rollercoaster of risk.
What ‘would happen if the: two traders pooled their-résources and each offers the other product.as well as their
Now both hold half théir‘inventory-as-umbrellas.and half wis-ice:creams.
When itis sunny-they would both make (1/2 x;CU20) + (1/2.x,CU200).=:CU110,-and,
When it-rains they both make (1/2 x CU20) + (1/2 x CU200) =:CUI110.
State: Sun Rain Average Risk,
Probability 0:5 0:5
Contribution 110 110. 110 ‘Zero
The average. retum.is the;same as-before, but the:risk is.diversified away..
The above ‘illustration is extreme ‘in. that risk has been. completely eliminated. In practice the risk, reduction .is
somewhat:less when invéstments are combined.
ey Interactive question.7: Diversification’ (Difficulty level: Intermediate]
4 Morag’ Ltd can invest up to CU4m in either or, both-of the following:projects:
a Project Outcome Probability
(NPV as. % of investment)
x. (i) + 30% 0.5
(ii)— 15% 0:5
Y (i) + 30% 0.5
(ii)— 15% 0:5
X and Y are independent of each other, ‘ie project X's outcome in’ no way:influences. that of project ‘Y and. vice:
versa.
Requirements
Calculate the:following:
(a) The best, worst and.expected outcomes if:the whole CU4m is invested in project X or project Y.
(b) The best, worst. and expected outcomes, together with associated probabilities, if half of the CU4m is
invested in X and.the'other half in Y.
Sée.Answer'at the end of this:chapter,
5.3. Systematic‘and.non-systematic:risk
As seen above, portfolios enable.risk to’ be:reduced. Evidence:shows that'the total risk.of a.security can be split into
the: proportion that may. be diversified away, and the proportion. that will’ remain after diversification. This
remaining risk .is the relevant risk for appraising investments.
Evidence shows that.increasing the number‘of securities'in.a portfolio‘reduces the risk.
Starting by constructing a. portfolio with one. share and gradually. adding! other shares: to it, the total risk of. the:
portfolio.reduces. The portfolios.are constructed randomly.
1261 | ‘Financial Management

Total Unsystematic risk
risk || \ (unique risk on spicific risk)
Systematic. risk!
? _ (Market risk)’
15-20 Number: of
‘securities: securities
Portfolio size and.risk:reduction.
Initially, substantial reductions .in total risk are possible. However; .as the. portfolio becomes ‘more and ‘more
diversified, risk reduction slows down and eventually stops, ie each additional -share yields successively less risk
reduction.
(SA) Definition:
LIL Unsystematic, unique:or:specific risk: The risk that:can be-eliminated by. diversification.
Unsystematic risk-is related to factors that:affect the.returns of‘individual investments in, unique ways (eg. the risk
that a particular-firm's labour force‘ might go on-strike-or its equipment might. fail).
(GA Definition: g
OL Systematic or market:risk: ‘The:risk that cannot.be eliminated by diversification. A
To some'extent the fortunes ofall companies are:dependerit.on,the economy. Changes in macroeconomic variables u
such as interest-rates, exchange. rates, taxation, inflation, ete. affect. all companies to a greater or lesser extent. and R
cannot be avoided by diversification, :ie;they apply:systematically right:across the-market..
5:4 Systematic:risk and_return;: 3
‘5.4.1, Systematic risk
The relevant risk of. an individual. security is’ its systematic: risk’ and.it is on ‘this basis that investments ‘should be. ~
judged. Unsystematic:risk‘can. be eliminated and is.of no-consequence to the well-diversified investor. Note.that-it
is not :necessary to hold the whole market portfolio to: diversify away unsystematic risk. — a. portfolio ‘of 15-20
randomly selected:securities-will eliminate the vast’majority-of it.
Itis not the case that.individual shares’ carry the-same amount of. systematic:risk. Some shares are more susceptible
to. economic factors’ than. others, For example, food retailing is’ less. susceptible to economic: factors than the
construction industry..
As -unsystematic. risk can. be diversified away,, investors need. only concern themselves with (and. will only earn
returns for’taking):systematic-risk.
5.4.2, Measuring systematic risk:
The next problem. is .how: to ‘measure. the systematic ‘risk: of. investments. and the required returns. The’ ‘model
adopted is’the capital-asset:pricing:model (CAPM).
The method adopted. by.CAPM is to measure systematic risk as an.index, normally referréd to.as beta (B)..As with
any index: some base points néed ‘to be: established. and then other observations will be calibrated, around these
points: The:two.baserpoints. are as follows:
(a) The risk-free security — this carries;no risk.and therefore no systematic risk. The risk-free:security hence has a
beta of zero.
(b) The market portfolio — this is a portfolio of. all risky investments. This represents the ultimate. in
diversification and. therefore-contains, only systematic risk: CAPM sets beta;to 1.00 for the market: portfolio
and this will represent:the average systematic. risk for the:market..
‘Risk and decision:making, | 127)

These two points may be-represented on the:following graph:
iReturn
ধম আল্লা শলালাল SS ss se ee settee 7 = _ : ~
07 1:00 Systematic’
risk. (B).
Graphical representation of-CAPM
The upward sloping line’ gives: the:relationship between. systematic risk and-return, From.the graph it can. be seen
that the higher the:systematic.risk, the.higher the: required _rate of.return.
Do not be. surprised. that some ‘securities carry’ a systematic risk: greater than ‘1,0, This: merely:means: that these
investments are:more affected by changes in‘macroeconomic variables than the average market investinent.
For example, shares in. construction companies ‘are ‘strongly influenced by. economic’ factors and ‘therefore have
betas greater‘than.1.0.
5.5, CAPM:equation
The line of the above.graph is often referred to in the form of.an equation:
rj = rf +B) (rm —rf),

where: Tj = required rate of return.on investment,

tf =risk-free'rate of:interest:

‘Tm =:return.on the market portfolio

Bj =index.of systematic risk.for security j
Note that when applied to.sharés, 015 the samé as the-cost of equity capital 16 (৪66 the chaptér'on cost of capital).
This formula,is provided in the examination. Very basi¢ calculations aré required and you.aré Expected to be able
to explain how. the equation works.
There is'a basic.risk-free return (rf) which:reflects the rational nature of investors ie they.require a return to reflect.
the: time value of money. On top of this investors require a premium :for systematic. risk. The average. market:
premium. for'such risk‘is (rm-—“rf) which the B’flexes, ie if the:investment.has:more systematic risk than the market.
average, B is > 1.00.and the premium (B(rm —rf))is therefore greater than the market average.

‘5.5.3. Estimating the.variables
The problem with estimating:rf is finding-a;tisk free:asset.and estimating its future-returns. Government short-dated
(eg Treasury) bills are probably the closest thing available in the real world and. the-return they-provide can be:
predicted with reasonable-accuracy by economic forecasters.
Estimating rm is perhaps even mofe-difficult. History shows a, very. Volatile performan¢e-for the stock market over
time. It-is probably best.to use the long-term average premium (ie-tm — rf) which is around 5%-pa:in real terms.
‘5.6. ‘Aggressive and defensiye'shares'
The expected returns ‘on the market portfolio will change:in relation.to-altered-economic expectations. This:in tum
will bring about a change‘in the expected return of ‘shares, which.depends on their-beta factor.
Betazis ‘a measure of the responsiveness of ‘the expected share‘retiirn to changes.in the return.of the ‘market:.Shares
with high. betas are termed aggressive, arid those:with.betas. less than.one.are termed deferisive,
1:28} | ‘Financial Management

As far as stock market-investiient tactics are-concernéd, an investor should buy high beta, shares. if the market is
expected ‘to ‘rise (a ‘bull’ market) because they can be expected to tise faster than the market: If the market is
expected to fall (a ‘bear’ market) low beta-shares are more attractive,
The only problem with this strategy is the need to forecast general market movements in advance,. otherwise: the
investor'might end‘up holding an aggressive share-in a-falling (bear) market:
Sy =| Interactive question: 8: Different sectors: (Difficulty:level: Intermediate]
Le You are’ considering investing in the sectors listed. below. For each, estimate.the expected beta value and thus’ the
likely performance of the'stock:.
Supermarkets:
Pharmaceuticals:
Construction
Airlines
Car manufacturing: ডে
fo
a A
See. Answer at the.end:of this;chapter. (P
a v
E}
R
57: Application-of:the:CAPM:to:project appraisal |
531. Developed for shares 3
The capital asset'pricinig:model was originally developed to explain how the-returns earned: on shares.ate: dependent:
on their risk: characteristics, However, its greatest potential use-in the financial management‘ of a:company is.in. the L
setting of minimum: requited returns (ie-tisk-adjusted discountiratés) ‘for:new capital investment projects.
‘5.7.2, Risk-adjusted‘discount ‘rate
The great advantage of using the CAPM for’project appraisal is that it clearly shows that the-discountsrate should
be related to the’project’s ‘risk. It is not good enough to assume that the firm's present-cost of. capital can.be used if
the:new project has different risk-characteristics ‘from. the firm's existing operations. After all, the cost.of capital-is
merely. a:return'which investors require on.their money,.and this‘will.goup if risk:increases.
In. addition, in making. a.distinction between systematic and unsystematicirisk, it shows how a highly speculative
project: such. as ‘mineral ‘prospecting may have a lower than average required ‘return because: its risk is highly
specific and-associated with the luck:of:making a strike, rather’ than with the ups and.downs of the:market (ie it-has
a high’total-riskbut a.low systematic risk)..
It‘is important:to follow the logic behind the use of the CAPM in this way:
‘Risk and decision:making, | 1129.

Assumed objective. is to maximise the wealth. of shareholders: |
Assumed that all shareholders all hold the market portfolio
and this is therefore appropriate as a benchmark
. The new project is viewed as an additional investment to be
added to the market portfolio
Minimum required rate of return set using the CAPM formula
r, =r; +B, (r,, — rj) where 15 the beta factor of the new project
|The effect of the project on the company which appraises it is irrelevant.
All that‘ matters is the effect of the project on the market portfolio:
‘

The company's shareholders have many other shares in-their portfolio.
They are unconcerned if the new’ project has an adverse effect on the
return/risk profile of the company which accepts it, so long as the effect
on the return and risk of the market portfolio is beneficial.

It‘is important:to:note: that there are two major weaknesses with the.assumptions:

Diversification The company's shareholders may not bé. divérsified., Particularly in, smaller companies they may.
have:invested:most:of their. assets in this;oné company. In.this case the CAPM approach will be
inappropriate,

Stakeholders Even.in. the case of larger:companies the ‘shareholders are not the only participants in the:firm. It
is.difficult to:_persuadeidirectors and.employees that the effect:of a projection the fortunes. of their
company is irrelevant. After all, they cannot diversify their.‘job and are exposed to both the
systematic ‘and specific risks ‘of the: business, :ie: total risk. ‘Thus managers: may try to diversify,
even.though shareholders are: better placed to-do so,.in order,to protect their jobs. This is another
example of agency-costs:

Perfecticapital In addition to these weaknesses there is the:problem. that the: CAPM depends:on a perfect capital

market market; for the purposes: of the. examination, however, this may be ignored. There .is also the
obvious practical difficulty of estimating the beta of a:‘new investment project.

5.8, Valuation models beyond'the CAPM:
‘5.8.1. Problems with’applying the CAPM. in practice

(a) The-need.to determine: the excess return. (rm,— rf). Expected, rather. than historical, returns should be used,
although: historical returns.are often used.in-practice..

(b) The need to. determine the risk-free,rate. A risk-free investment might be a. government security. However,
interest rates: vary with the term,of the lending.

(c) Errors.in the.statistical analysis used to.calculate.B-values.’Betas may also change over time.

(d) The CAPM is also unable to.forecast accurately‘returns: for companies: with low price/earnings ratios and to
take account. of seasonal ‘month-of-the-year' effects and “day-of-the-week' effects that appear to influence
returns On shares.

The alpha value can be seen as:a measure‘of how wrong the CAPM is.

Alpha’values:

(a) Reflect only temporary, abnorimal returns,:if CAPM is a realistic model

1:30) | ‘Financial Management

(b) Can,be positive or.negative
(c) Over time, will tend, towards zero for any individual share, and, for 4 well-diversified, portfolio taken. as a.
whole.will be:zero
(d) May-exist due-to-the inaccuracies:and limitations 06006 CAPM
If the alpha value is-positive, investors who don't hold shares: will/be:tempted'to buy them (to-take advantage of the
abnormal return), and-investors who do hold ‘shares will want to hold on to them so share prices will rise., If; the.
alpha, value is ‘negative, investors won't want to. buy them, and current holders will want to sell them, so share
prices will fall.
For example, ABC Ltd's shares have a.beta value of. 1-2 and-an-alpha value of +2%. ‘The market:return is 10% and
the risk-free:rate of:return is 6%.
The required return is.6% +(10% — 6%) 0—1.2 = 10.8%
The current,return = expected:return + alpha'value = 10°8% 4+2% = 12.8%
:5.8:3, ‘Alternatives tothe CAPM.
The CAPM: specifies that the only :risk factor that should. be taken into account is the market risk premium.
Subsequent empirical research has shown that-there, may. be other, factors in addition to-market risk ptemium that
explain differences in asset-retirns, sich.as interest rates.and iridustrial production.
Unlike the-CAPM, which,analyses:the returns on-a share. as a function of a single factor — the:return on the-market-
portfolio, the arbitrage: pricing model (APM) assumes that the return on each security is based on. a. nuniber of:
independent factors. The:actual réturn:r on any sécurity-is shown. as:
r= E(rj)+ BIFI + B22... +e: IG}
where. E(rj) sis the:expected-return on‘the security A
B1 is the:sensitivity to changes in factor ‘1, [2
Fl is the-difference between actual and expected values:of factor 1 u
B2 is the’sensitivity to changes in.factor 2 R
F2 ‘is the difference between-actual and expected values.of factor 2 L
e: is arandom term 3
Factor analysis is used to-ascertain the factors to which sécurity:returns are sensitive. Four key factors.identified by
researchers: have been: L
০. Unanticipated inflation
০ Changés:in the expected ‘level of industrial production,
e Changes:in the risk premium:on bonds (debentures)
° Unanticipated.changes in‘the tetm structure of intetest rates
The Arbitrage:Pricing Theory (APT)-works in a:similar-way to the CAPM in that,it assumes. that investors aré.fully
diversified, so only systematic-risks influenice:the returns. However unlike CAPM, the possible systematic factors
are: numerous and. vary in each particular case. The general APT model for the return of a, security has ‘been
formulated as, follows:
ঢায) লব + (E@rA).— BA + (E(B) — rf)BB +  নেচার) — rf)BM. + 
Where (E(rA) — rf) BA. is the tisk"prémium. on;:factor A
(E(B) —rf)BB is the risk premium on factor-B and so on
Arbitrage: pricing theory does not specify what the:systematicrisk:factors are, or whether. the various: betas will. be
positive or. negative. Research suggests: that the risk ‘factors. tend to. be::from. changes in the ‘macroeconomic
environment:such as inflation,.interest'rates and. production and consumption.levels.:Some companies’ will. be more
sensitive to changes in these‘factors and'these will be measured by’the’relevant beta. factor.
Fama and, French identified. two: factors in. addition to the market portfolio that.explain company. returns namely
size and.ratio of book’value to market:value.
‘Risk and decision:making, | 113 1|

The size factor‘ig méasured .as the differencé in return bétween a portfolio.of the-smallest stocks anda portfolio of
the largest stocks. The avérage small stock is thought'to be riskier'than-the average large stock and ‘therefore there
is an. additional risk: premium here,
The ‘value factor is proxied by the difference in return between a, portfolio of the highest book! to market value
stocks and_ portfolio of thie lowest.book‘to market’value stocks. A share-with.a high baldnce-sheet (book)*value-per
share. when compared to the market share price (a so-called ‘value stock) is obsérved. as having a higher return,
generally than.a Share’ with:a low‘ratio of-bookvalue.to-market value.
The Fama,and French ‘three’ factor-:model 18 as follows
Ej) =1f + Bijm (E(rm) — rf) + Bi,S STZE:+.Bi,V VALUE
Wheré. Bi,miis the stock's beta
Bi,S is beta-with respect to size
Bi,V is'the stock's beta with respect-to value
Unlike the CAPM, these factors aré to be determined empirically.
The 8108. 3110 French model has been augmented with the addition 01 a:fourth factor, which is momentum. The
momentum factor-is based.on the concept that a share that has been increasing jin, price will-continue to perform,
well and.a share: that has been dropping:in, value-will, continue to perform. badly,'It is: measured by the difference in,
return between a.portfolio of shares-that;have increased in value and.a portfolio of shares that have:fallen in value.
5.8.4 Bond-yield-plus premium approach
The bond-yield-plus'model is based onthe empirical observation that the return on equity is higher than the yield.
‘on bonds.. Since equities are:riskier than bonds, 016 difference between the.two is.a reward ‘the investor requires ‘in
order to invest in the-riskier‘asset. Now if:this equity:market premium ‘was constant, then the:required rate of return
for equity could simply be-calculated by looking*at the bond yields. and then adding.the:fixed premium.
(5.8.5; Fundamental beta’
A CAPM calculated beta is based on. historical data. Many analysts and business managers have moved to
calculating ‘a fundamental beta. This:is a beta which is: based.on the basic:notion of the risk-return.relationship ‘ie
where‘a company’s cash flows are-subject'to greater.risk, then.the'‘required:return-should be. higher.
Greater ‘risk is caused by three-different:factors:
০ —_—- The nature: of the business.operations
৩ The level of operating ‘gearing’
০ —- The level of. financial gearing
The major disadvantage.to:this approach is-that:the adjustment up or down.is subjective-and lacks‘precision,, but-it
allows:a commonsense valuation based.on the risk:that the-valuer sees in the future. cash-flows.
[1321 | ‘Financial Management

> | en 8 দূ
(ot, Fa e F&F
a4 = ৫৬
© BE
Oe c=
3 2৭৩ 8] tS Be
[> 224 41 বিল লক
3 a EY ors
(০ Smt) FSIS > (4
i 32138, (তে
7) Fe} iQ ( Tb
ro oat fet OO) Soja] 4 2
: . | Aw SSO বশ
: : ১ m Ree
১ : dS =o pa) ৫১০৬০
লন OOM 16 (5৮:
4 2, ডি te (২
t Ti fa) Oe
oe 1৩ aS ft 3 el
০০০০, ৩ হেত Paes 6505
' ; 1০১০ 5 OBS SoS Fads
: ৮১] ৩১5৯০ তে +, fs) Tag fo de}
চ 58. = m7) forts (iTS Ps Sel
Spy ose SS POTS ie daveT
Cao, ¥=} cio 23 OED GSS Woes
| Beals! BBE o > ৮১৬৮ Bas bes Bee
| | taal চা j wT ah Dy oa) a 2171১851515
oe ৭ 51502 i d= WISE) cy iias Bisig
১৮৮ ৩২০৫০ or oA CASIO Rise Obes
: [7151 NS Ore S 6 se 1০৫৩০ BESS ৮০৬৭ চা
; : রা SHS Me = \ Gad 0 0
A রে hc 01 নি A é |
(০) Mis Qis (০) ঢ্ ঠ
ক্র Efe . ; : ; ১ Fi . a
. j
a . মু ?
Se) ae Bas § | rads v
=e 35 RS) cy fs mm Pe চ
ORO Viggo To) £2 ers ৫ $4}
55 a 3320 Se দম R
qa cas =] নে EG), ৫] CH to
se) {8} ID) =S0, jae ff ৷
নি ২] SS sl Fe) টে Voto SB BSMAS Es ed
; = 2 ES Gai To) ৫৭ hide ch FAS চ মগ |
ORS ; নল নি he বশী] রে RY Q
we a | | Bae & 8 Saad ae H BE
>) i x Tam mm oS Shae ees 343 Se 3
: ৪: রণ] মে 2 হেতট ত ce 3 i815
4 fa
7) | s—~ | Bes & 0 0 0 } Oe Eh
3 Ye - Sis OB
ও নর ht (a : ঢা il
(238 i 8 2 B35 ee 1
Ned 59) 4
an ae হি ই বিত্টীন ii =
FS Gif (HS fay ১]
ট 3 oS FA IY Ia FS | | 8S &
Lg re Coda} fs orks} by p am, fam
Tat HY (ea) CS Sh om OMmoro
EO POE AIS ICRC Shu TiAl) pda
Ets UE 75 Re 2৩ 3 & (a) 3
তত 0৪১১5৩৮০৮২১ শপ:
রি |< 51০1 WIS ৫০৮৪৮০৯০৮১০, নথ 0 0 J
৫৬ y 0 নি \: f 2.
fat fa} : Oe Om —) : 8 fen \
২5 2 অত Based | = |;
: Or dat Fs} 32) JEP {
তত Gh LEY co) fot Solas D Aci
Sas fat op dae) CH Eile নে = &
- Bee Peace y ae
c Yam
‘ নারী du fo) fol, DEGROLOV 5a
(a) | SB8= ৪১০৮5 5005
fc ৬০২15 [0 ৫2 11
sels eS toy her SF oud} fate bd
} (ics Ean X te Sat ৫2 Tee
SS. 1 Par of Se) Tatty TS eas oy
2 তত & Dmotc 58583
হর গস § ৯৬৮৪ aoe
D -| Om 4 Ses টে ) 'B Ss Bee}
= Ab iad - (5) নৌ
bs OBS ই 25121 ঠা fe) SI EST নে)
BQ 28x ০১৫ 513 F = AS Sis
OC OF =P CMR ল[ 6৮০ 3 ০] নি নমল)
ই i laa Oo 8s Be Syke
‘ 3 SES towel (তিলে e_ BOLONEES
oe. s c= গে pes (7) ০৮৪]: 155) OS Fa)
OF key & CHS Cc e4c4tes) তে PhS}
5৩ইত্টড]ত৮ ৬৩৮ Jc: ই Shoe =U.
Bseg? ৪১৩৩৪ By © SRS
od, ড় ক্স
22322 Swe তত | a So
fa gut) J, =
BW iamis Hime & = 51585 | নচছহি
yew OBOE 2 ESR OR ZED Se |.
G Cc . — নি
@O GIES Ski fore »\ Bo =
A Ee Raat S ঠ 0 G& 0 0 A
(GRBs GE 31200 র্‌ a ,
tie es hae ou
‘Risk and decision: making, | 1:33)

Answer the following questions.

1. Adrian‘is contemplating purchasing for CU60,000. a:machine which he. will. use to produce’ 10,000 disks. per
annum for‘five: years. ‘These disks -will-be-sold for CU9 each and unit variable costs are expected to be.CUS.
Incremental fixed.costs'will be°CU14,000:per annum for production: costs and CU5,000:per annum for selling’
and-administration costs. Adrian has'a required.return-of ‘10% per annum.

By how many units must the estimate of production and.sales volume:fall,for the: project:to be:regarded as.not
worthwhile?

2 A company has constructed a:model for predicting profits. Net profit'or loss deperids.on two variables: gross
profit.and overheads. The following are independent probability distributions of'the two-variables.

Gross profit ‘Probability Overheads Probability
‘CU cu
12,000 0.1 6,000 0.3
০,000 0.4 4,000 0.3
4,000 0.4 3,000 0.3
3,000 0.1 2;000 0.1
What is the probability that the company will make a positive:net profit?

ও The annual sales*volume and.the‘unit contribution .margin.of a:new product.are uncertain. Estimates: for these.

two variables are as follows:
Sales:volume Unit Contribution. Probability

(units), probability

80,000 0.1 CU2.00. 0.5

75,000 0.6: CU1.50 0.5

50,000 0.3
The sales volume (which has ‘an expected value of. 68,000) and unit contribution margin (which has: ‘an
expected value of CU1.75).have:been assumed. to. be independent.
If the annual fixed costs are CU130,000, what:is the: probability that the:company will make‘a loss?

4 -Anew'customer has asked.company X.to undertake a.contract. The following details are available:
CU
Contract‘price 10,000
Variable:costs (7,500)
Contribution 2,500
It: is estimated that. there is.a 0.2 probability that ‘no ‘money will be forthcoming from ‘the customer after
completion of the-contract, but:a'0.8 probability that the contract’price-will.be: paid in full.
Alternatively, a credit report could be purchased for CU600 which would indicate’ for certain whether the
customer will:pay the contract price.
What.is the expected contribution from the contractif the company pursues the optimal.strategy?
5 Chanéie Ltd has made the following estimates of sales for'a:new product’ with:an, expected life of -two years:
High sales Average sales Low sales
Prébability 0.4 0.3 0.3
Year 1. 15,000 10,000 8,000
Year 2 .20,000 10,000 4,000
134) | ‘Financial Management

Variable costs are uncertain and the:following estimates aré made for the two year period:
Variable-costs:as a percentage of. sales ‘Probability
80% 0.1
10% 0.2
60% 0.4
50% 0.3
Fixed overheads ‘will, be-incréased by CU4,000 pér-annuim:if the product is manufactiréd. Chancie Ltd has 4
Cost of capital of 15% pér annum,
What is the expected net.present value‘(fo the:nearest CU.100) of making:and selling:the:product.over the:next
two years?
6 Foods, Ltd _has:made.a public:announcement-that:‘it:intends to introduce anew product:which: will decrease the
beta of the firm. On the same day, Drinks, Ltd has publicly announced, that it ‘is being sued by a major
customer. for-a batch of faulty goods.
If neither of these ‘items: of: information had. been. made public. before, what effect Should. they have on. the
companies" share prices,-assuming'the Stock:Marketiis semi strong’efficient?
7 The following:data relates to'the:ordinary shares of Burton-Ltd.
Average: market:return 20%
Risk-free rate of return 13%
Beta-factor‘of Burton Ltd's-equity: 1.5, রদ
What.is'Burton's:cost of equity, using the capital asset pricing:model? IAN
RA
8 STRATHBURN LTD T
Strathburn Ltd:is ও family-owned medium-sized.company specialising in the. distribution of office stationery. 8
It.is currently reviewing’its investment plans for the future’ and..has' under consideration three projects: to be
funded-out of CU2 million-of.investments‘which.have.been specially: set'aside. L
The projects and.their.respective cash flows and probabilities.are as follows.. 3
‘Project Initial cost: PV of netiearnings Probability
LMT. 2.0 7.0 0.417
1.0 0.583
GTV 1.0 3:5 0.5
0:5 0:5
Cus 1.0 3:0 0.5
0. 0:5,
Requirements
(a) Compare the outcomes of. investing. all, the funds in project LMT with, that of sharing them between
projects GTV and €UJ (round.to:nearest CU5,000). (4 marks)
(৮) (i) On the basis of the expected’ values‘calculated, in which:project(s) would you invest?
(1). ~What:are the weaknesses inherent:in this approach. to:decision-making?
(iii) What:other.factors-should be considered.in:making:this decision? (8 marks)
(12 marks)
9 SENATOR.TERRY TRUFO
Senator Terry: Trufo's firm, TT Bonus Inc, has undertaken: some legal and. academic ‘research. at a cost. of
CU4,000 into the possibilities of’ selling ‘university degrees. The firm is unsure of the outcome of such a
venture: but. feels that ‘there ‘is ‘a 60% chance of. annual income .of CU70,000. and a 40% chance of annual.
income of.CU40,;000.
‘Risk and decision:making, | KS

Printing: machinery would 0660 to be bought at a cost of some CU40,000 payable in, two equal annual,
instalments, one immediately and one in one year's time if-the equipment-had been operating correctly for a
year, The-equipment would be depreciated. on a straight line basis by CU3,500 per annum for ten. years and
then sold. Use would also be-made of. some existing equipment which-originally cost CU6,000, has a book:
value of.CU1,000, and would cost-CU9,000 to‘replace, though.thefirm is considering sellingit:for CU2,000.
Production and labour:costs in the first: yeat*would-amount to -CUS5,000: payable -in one’ year's. time, though.
the. next nine’ years’ costs would fall to*CU30,000-if demand ‘were.low .in the-first year. Revenue would first:
be receivable in.two“years' time and for the following nine years. Fixed costs of ‘CU5,000 per annum would.
be reallocated to the degree project,
Requirements
Calculate the following.
(a) Accounting rate: of return’ by expressing
(i) Average: annual, pre-tax accounting profit on-the project.as a percentage of the book: value. of; the
initial investment.
(ii) The-same profit as.a percentage-of the average book value of the:investment
(iii) Total accounting profit:as-a percentage-of the:initial investment. (2 marks)
(8) Payback:period. (2 marks)
(c) Internal rate’of return of the project. (2 marks)
(d) Net present:value of the project at the company's required:rate:of return of 8%.
(2 marks)
(5) The sensitivity: of your-resultsin (0) to the estimates of
0) The-required rate of return
(ii) ‘Sales revénue
(ii) ‘Life of the project. (6 marks)
(14 marks)
Note: Requirements (a) — (0) .are:revision of basic:techniques
10 COMEIFEET. LTD
Comfifeet Ltd, ‘a footwear manufacturer, has: a ‘factory in.Hampshire that if rents on a.lease due to expire at
the-end of. December 20X4. ‘The:factory is’entirely. devoted to making Old Faithful carpet‘slippers (OFs). The
market’for the slippers has been declining and.a decision had been.taken:two ‘years ‘ago. not to seek:to:renew
the lease: in -20X4, but. to close down OF manufacture when. the: lease expires. At. a recent meeting of the
company's board of. directors the:question, was.raised as:to whether it might be more beneficial.to’close at the
end of December 20X1, three ‘years earlier than had originally been decided..As:a member.of the company's
finance staff, you have.been asked to.look:into this question.
Sales of OFs are projected ' to be as follows for the:next.three- years.
‘Year CU'000
20X2 10,000
20X3: 7,500.
20X4. 5,000
The marketing director believes that these figures could. be. increased if an advertising-campaign were-to be
undertaken, Such a campaign: would.inyolve cash outlays of CU] million,on 31 Decertiber in each of 20X1,
20X2, and 20X3. The. marketing director acknowledges that;the results of the advertising campaign are
Uncertain, but she-believes that'there would be at least.a 10% incréase in.salés.on‘the projected, figures and the
incréase could be-as high as 25%. To ৩৪56 asseSsmeént.it’has been agréed that it-ig reasonable to assume that
the incréase will be: either 10% with a, probability of 40%, or 25% with a probability of 60%. If the
advertising were:to be undertaken,.the expenditure would. be available for tax-relief‘in-the accounting year in
whicht' would be incurred.
1:36) | ‘Financial Management

The variable.costs of‘manufacture:of OFs-are estimatéd at 30% of the selling price. The rent of the factory is
CUS million, a-Year, payable on, | January. The: owner of the'factory will not agree to an early termination, of
the lease, but the company has the right to sublet the factory. Thé directors ‘are’ confident ‘of finding a
subtenant who-would pay CU4 million.on 1 January in each of the three relevant years.
The plant used in/the factory'was.all bought in January 20W8 ‘for CU2,000,000. Were the factory to-close in,
20X.1, it would be ৪০10 in December for CUT,000,000, but if it*were retained until.20X4 it would Be sold in
Deceimber of that year‘for an-estimated CU200,000. For the purposés of the-present analysis, tréat:the plant as
if it had been excluded ‘from, the gerieral, pool. This means that it attracts 18% (reducing balance) tax,
allowances. in the ‘year of its acquisition and in every subséquent-year of its being owned by the: company
except'the last year. In the last year, the difference: between the plant's written down value for tax purposes
‘and its disposal. proceeds -will either be allowed to the company’ as an additional tax relief if the disposal
proceeds are less than the written. down value, or be charged to the-company’if the disposal proceeds are’ more
than the tax'written down value.
Apart’ from rent and. depreciation, fixed costs.-are estimatéd to be CU1,000,000 each, year, :including a
CU300,000 allocation of head office costs.
When, the factory closes certain staff would be entitled to tedundancy payments. These: would. total
CU400,000 if closure were ‘to take:place in 20X1, but rise to CU450,000 if-closure were-in 20X4. In, either
case the:payment would.be:made-on-the day-of closure and be fully allowable:for corporation tax for the-year
concerned.
Production. of OFs; gives: rise-to a working; capital requirement of an amount:equal. to 5% of the: sales: value.
This needs to be in place by the beginning of:each year concerned.:By the-end of the production: period.all of
the working capital will have been released. Closure’on either date:is not expected to have any:effect.on. any
০016 company's other activities. It is:estimated thatthe appropriate-cost:of capital ‘is 10% per annum. 5
The company's accounting year is to 31 ‘December and the:corporation tax.rate of 21%:is payable at the end, A
of. the year.to’which it relates. e
Requirements চ
(a) Determine, on the basis of net present. value (NPV), ‘whether the advertising should be undertaken, R
‘assuming ‘that closure‘is delayed until 20X4. (6 marks)
(b) Taking account of your conclusion ‘from. (a) determine, on the basis of NPV, whether the company 3
should close the:factory in.20X1 or-in:20X4. (12 marks)
(18 marks) L
11 GFL
George, Skinner and Fleét’Ltd. (‘GFL’) is.a large construction Company and, has:a financial yearend of 31
December, It has been-invited-to bid,:via a-tender contract, for a-major piece of ground preparation, work’ for. a.
London development site, Y.ou have:been asked by.GFL's Senior'management to advise them.
You have'the following-information and estimates to aid your decision:
(1) The work-would.take two-years to complete:and would start-in, January 20X7.
(2) The successful bidder for the contract would receive an advance payment of CU2 million.in January
20X7 and the balance.is receivable.in-early January 20X9.
(3) Materials to-be used on the work-would cost:CU820,000 (20X7) and CU930,000 (20X8).
(4) The:company would :need.to transfer, 20 of its highly skilled employees: from other GFL construction.
sites in London for the last eighteen months of the contract. (ie:from. July 20X7). ‘The. current: average
annual wage of these employees is CU23,000, but they will each be paid 8 premium of 15%-above this
figure:for working on, the development:site. They will be replaced at their existing sites by‘new workers,
who because of ‘their comparative.lack:of experience will receive an average:annual wage-of CU19;000.
(5) To supplement, the transfers in, (4) above, GEL would employ 45: :new: workers: at a total, cost of
CU830,000: per annum on the.development site for the:whole‘two-years (20X7. and.20X8)..
(6) GFL will also need. to hire: additional ‘site management staff for the duration of the: contract at: an
average annual total costiof CU420,000.
‘Risk and decision:making, | 137)

0) To aid'the ground preparation work, GFL, will make use of one ০015-6188631, ০9101 removing machines.
This. cost CU3.2 million when purchased in 20X4, but it is currently wnder-utilised because of the:
changing:characteristics of GFL's work, As-a result, GFL was planning to sell it.by:the end.of 20X6 and
has received a firm offer of CU1.1 imillion from Tideford Construction Limited, GFL's management:
consider that the:machine, if itis employed on the-development'site, will be- worth, at most, CU200,000.
by'the'end of the contract.

The earth.moving machine attracts capital allowances, 8015 excluded from the general pool, This:means that

it:attracts ‘18% (reducing balance) tax allowances in the year Of expenditure and.in every. subsequent’ year of

being owned. by the: company, except’the last year. In the last year, the difference between the machinery's
written:down value for tax purposes and its disposal proceeds will be either

0) Allowed to the company ds aii additional, tax:réliéf, if the disposal proceeds aré less than the:tax' written
down ‘value, or’

Gi). Be charged to the company, if the-disposal proceeds.are inore‘than the:tax' written down value.

০ The materials and labour costs-outlined in (3) to (6) above-are all stated at December :20X6 price levels.
It:is ‘expected that’these costs. will inflate at the: estimated annual general rate of‘inflation, which:is 2%
for:20X7 and 3% in subsequent years.

° Unless otherwise. stated, you can, assume that all cash’ flows take place at the-énd of the year in question.

o The corporation tax. rate is 21% per annum and .is payable in the same year as the
investment/income/costs to: which it relates.

GFL's management .is aware that: this. will be a very competitive bidding process: At the company’s most:

recent board meeting; it was agreed that::a total tender price of CU7 million. for the,.contract would. be:

reasonable, but that, if there was a danger, of being outbid, ৪ lower-price would be considered as long as the

‘figures added up’. GFL has of late used a post-tax:money‘cost of capital.of.9% to:appraise its investments.

One of GFL's directors .has made the point that were the company to be successful. with this bid, there 19: 3

possibility that:it might be asked to tender again for further contracts, which are likely to be: held in. either’

Africa or’ South-America. 'GFL-has not to date‘undertaken:any contracts abroad.

Requirements

(a) Advise; with supporting*calculations, GFL's senior management as.to whether tendering:for the contract:
at a total price-of CU7-million would enhance:shareholder: value.

(15 marks)

(b) Calculate the ‘minimum total contract. price: that GFL should set that: would be ‘neutral :in terms of
shareholder’ value. (5 marks)

(©) Advise GFL's senior management as ‘to the ‘key aréas of tisk (excluding the management of ‘foreign
exchiange risk):that-could arise if GFL ‘was to undertake inivestments.abroad. (5 marks)

(25 marks)
Now go ‘back ‘to the Learning Objectives in the Introduction. If you are satisfied you, have. achieved. these
objectives, please'tick them off.
1:38} | ‘Financial Management

ATSwers to lintcrneiive qmesiions
‘Answer. to Interactive question 1
NPV =— 125,000 + [(100 — 30):2,000 — 100,000)’x 3:791
= €CU26,640,
Sensitivity ‘to
0) Selling price
125,000 = [(P~30) 2,000— 100,000] «3.791. Alternatively
‘cu''26,640
32.973 = 2,000 60,000 — 100,000 2,000 £100 x3.791
P = 96.49
ie fall of 3.51% before NPV is zero.
(2) Variable:costs
125,000 = [(100.— V) 2,000 — 100,000] x 3:791 Alternatively
cu 226,640
32,973 = 200,000 —2,000V.— 160,000 2,000 x230x3.791 |
Vos 3351 6
ie incréase:of 11.7% before. NPV is zero. ঢা
(3) Volume a
125,000 = [(100 —.30) g— 100,000] x:3:791 Alternatively: T
cu 226,640 নর
32,973 = 70q— 100,000, 2,000 x«2100-—30) 3.791 iR
q = 1,900 L
ie fall of 5% before NPV is:zero: 3)
(4) Initial.cost: Alternatively
CU(125,000'+26,640) = CU151,640 "125,000
ie increase:of 2:1% before NPV is zero:
(5) Fixed-costs
125,000 ‘= [(100—30) 2,000 — FY x 3:791 Alternatively
_০৫26,640
32973 = 140000-7 ০৮,:100:;000 x:3.791
F = 107,027
ie an increase-of 7% before.NPV is zero.
(6) Life
125,000 = 40,000 x AFn @ 10%
3125 = AFn @ 10%
AF for-4:yéars at 10% 18 3.17
ie life can fall to approximately.4 years before NPV is, zero.
‘Risk and decision:making, | 1°39)

(0) Discount-rate
3.125 = AF for 5 years 9৪ ম%
From. tables AF,for.5 years @ 15% is 3:352, so x,1s more'than, 15%
Try 20%
NPV'= (125,000) + 40,000 x 2.991 =:(5,360)
__ 26,640 _
IRR = 10% + 26:640 45,360 (99, _ 1995):= 18%
ie an increase-of 80% before NPV is:-zero..
Answer, to Interactive question 2
(a) NPV
to tL t2.
CU CU CU
Sales — current values:inflated @ 6% 53,000 563180
Costs'—-current values ‘inflated @ 4% (31,200) (34,611)
21,800 21,569
Tax ৫&.21% (4,578) (4,529)
Investment. (20,000)
(20,000) 17,222 17,040
DF @ 10% 1. 0.909 0.826
PV (20,000) ‘15,655 14,075
NPV =:CU9,730
(b) Sensitivity
Let R:=revenue:at-t] and t2 in current.terms.
CU Time: DF PV
Investment (20,000) 10 I (20,000)
After tax revenue 0.79°% 1.06R. tl 0.909 0:761R
After tax revenue 0.79% 1.062R. 2 0.826 0:733R
After tax costs 0.79% (31,200) tl 0.909 (22,405)
After tax costs 079 (34,611) t2 0.826 (22,585)
1.494R 64,990
If 1.494R — 64,990 = 0, then-R = CU43,501
This is 006,499 less than the CU50,000 estimated. CU6,499 is 13.0% of CU50,000, so:reventie:can-fall by
13.0% before the.NPV becomes zero.
Alternatively
PV of revenue
tl 12:
CU CU
Revenue 53,000 $6,180,
Tax effect (11,130) (11,798)
41,870 44,382
DF @ 10% 0.909 0:826
PV 38,060 36,660
NPV ০৮,730
Sensitivity = PVof CFsaffected y 199% = 71750 x 100% = 13.0%
Answer. to Interactive question 3
Project: 1 Expected value = (CU100 x 0.4) + (€U200° 0.3):-+#:(CU1,000*x 0.3) =CU400m
Project:2 Expected value.= (0 x 0.4) + (CU500'x.0.3) +:(CU600 x 0:3) =.CU330m
1°40) | ‘Financial Management

Project’3 Expected value = (CU180 x 0.4) + (CUI90:x'0.3):-+(CU200 x-0:3) =CU189m
Therefore, based:on expected-values, Project 1 should be adopted
Answer to Interactive question’4
Year |Expécted.sales = dl 0,000 x:0.3) + (15;000:'0.7)
= 13,500
Year 2'Expected sales = (0:3 (8,000° 0.2 + 10,000 x:0:8)) +:(0.7 (20,000, x 0.6:4; 10,000:x'0.4))
= 14,080
‘Answer to Interactive question ‘5
13,500x£10 14,080x£10

NPV=—cU230,000+ 11 +4 117. ০09,090
Alternatively (using discount.tables):
NPV =— CU230;000:+:(13,500 x CU10 x 0.909) + (14,080°%'CU10'x:0:826).=CU9,016
(difference due.to: rounding).
The odds are the 58716 asin the:previous game but'the sums-of money:itivolved are much larger and.the game will,
not'be;repeated. Ifyou lose, you do not,have:a chance of winning back, Your'money.
Whether or not you, accept this gamble depends. on:much more. than the expected value of CU1,000. You, would. |
৪0106100099 58101108 up the:following factors,in-your mind: ও
(a) The-chances of winning CU5,000: A
(b) How much you would enjoy winning-CU5,000 (the. level-of satisfaction‘is often .referred.toias ‘utility’) ঢু
(0) The-chances of losing CU3;000 cE}
(0) How ’much:you would dislike losing: CU3,000 টি
(০) How'much'you like or dislike taking risks —
09. How much. you trust me! 3)
For most:people the unacceptability of ‘incurting a loss of CU3,000 would prevent*them playing, even, though the |
game has a. positive-expected value, They’are risk-averse. ~
‘Answer to Interactive question 7,
(ay All CU4m.in.X.

Expected outcome = (0.5 *:30%) + (0.5:°x —15%) = TA%

5০785% x.CU4m.= CU300,000 NPV

(Best outcome 30%:x'CU4m = CU :2m; worst outcome — 1598 x CU4m:=—‘CU0.6m)

All GU4m in Y¥ — as:X above.
(b)

‘Risk and decision:making, | 1141

++30% 05. 30% ০20 ০25
X 30% ০5... তা ae
লারা Y - 15% 0:5, 79 % ৭৮০3 0.25
a Y + 30% OS: 72% “203m 0.25
X=15% 0.5 . - ,
Y'- 159 Os আআ 0.6m 0.25
E(NPV) =<2.0.3m 1.00
Now there ‘is less chance. of the: extremes occurring (CU1.2m had a 50% chance before, similarly. — CU0.6m),
Chance-of éither extreme is now 0.25 and a 0.5 chance of CU0.3m (no chance of this before). Therefore, ‘risk<is
reduced,
Answer to Interactive question 8
Sector ikelybctammmbcrformance)
Supermarkets: ঢা Food retailers and drug companies tend to be recession proof. due to
১1, selling necessities. Their fortunes.however do-not:lift significantly. when
Pharmaceuticals . . .
economic’prosperity. arrives.
Construction ৪৯১: Industries involved in capital goods, or which ‘make: and sell non-
১১ essential, goods. ard sérvices ég air travel, will show a high degree of
Airlines | টে
Systematic risk.
Car manufacturing
121 | ‘Financial Management

Answars to Saliest
A
Cash 10%
flow factor: PY
Cu'000 CU
Time 0.machine (60) 1 (60,000)
Time ‘1-5 contribution. 40 3.7911 151,640
Time 1-5 fixed.costs: (19) 3.7911 (72,029)
Positive NPV 19,611,
PV of contribution must fall. by:CU19;61.1
£7,611
Sales volume must fal by © 4640 ০ 12.93%
Fall in sales volume = 0.1293 x 10,000
= 11,293:
Gross profit Overheads Probability
CU'000. CU'000 |
12 Any 0.1, iC}
6 4,3-or 2. 0.4 x 0.7 [||
4 3or2 0.4 x 0.4 A
3 2 0.1 X 0.1 P
Total = 0.35 u
3 R
Sales: volume. ‘Margin Profit/(loss) L
CU CU'000
80,000 2.00 (80 x 2.00)— 130'= 30:0 3
'80;000 1.50 (80 x 1.50);— 130 = (10:0)
75,000: 2.00° (75 x 2.00) — 130 = 20:0
75,000 1.50 (75 x 1.50) — 130 = (17.5)
50,000 2.00. (50 x 2.00): 130'= (30.0)
50,000. 1.50' (50 x 1.50) 1305 (55:0)
Probability.of a.loss- = (0.1 0.5) + (0.6 x 0:5) + 0:3
=:0.65
4 Although decision trees are not:examinable, they’often help to answer the ‘simpler’ EV questions.
‘Pay:0.8' on রা
rn -2,500, (win contribution)
No report. |. O ss _. ২৮৭০, . ও
রে ৯৯ Boner?" __ -(7,500)(Lose variabie costs)
O ee Pay:0.8 ' Lo.
| | 2,500
Report:-.600- a
0.
EV no.report = (0.8 x:2,500):—-(0:2 x 7,500)
= CU500
EV report. = (0.8 x'2,500):—-600
= CU1,400
‘Risk and decision:making, | 143}

5 Expected variable ০০৪৮85-021021386 of sales: =.61%
Year 1, expected Sales: = CU11,400.
Expected contribution.-CU1.1,400 x 0,39 = CU4,446
Expected profit.CU(4,446 — 4,000) = CU446
PY of profit-CU446 + 1,15 = CU388
Year? expected sales = €U12,200
Expected contribution-CU12,200 x 0.39 = CU4;758
Expected profit.,CU(4,758 — 4000) = CU758
PV of'profit CU758 = 1.15 = CUS73
Total expected:NPV CU(388 + 573) = CU961
#& CUT,000 rounded
D
6 B decreases :—> .ke:decreases:—> MV increases:since MV = Ke
Drinks being sued‘is likely to:cause a.fall in MV.
7 The correct.answer is: 23.5%
ke =rf+B.(m—rf)
= 13% + 1.5°(20—13)%
= 23.5%
8 STRATHBURN'LTD
(a) Outcomes
Project Initial PV of ‘NPV ‘Probability ‘EV!
cost’ ‘earnings (NPV)
CcUm CcUm CUm CUm,
MT 2:0 7.0 5.0. 0:417 2.085
2:0 1.0 (1.0) 0:583 (0.583)
1.502
or (rounding) 1.5
GTV 1.0 3.5 2.5 0.5 1.25
1.0 0:5 (0.5) 0.5 (0.25)
CUI 1.0 3.0 2.0. 0:5 1.0,
1.0 0 (1.0) 0:5, (0.5)
Possible outcomes: of projects
Option 1 Project: LMT.
Expected value = CU.1.5m
Possible values = €U5:0m.or —CU1.0m
Option.2 Projects GI.-V and CUJ
Expected values GTV CUI Combined Probability EV.
CUm. CUm. CUm. CUm
2:5 2.0 4:5 0.5 «0:5 1125
25 (1.0) 1:5 0.5 x 0.5 0.375
(0.5) 2.0 1:5 0.5 *.0.5 0.375
(0:5) (1.0) (1.5) 0.5'x.0:5 (0.375)
1.5,
(b) Evaluation
(i) Tf there were :no ‘restriction ‘on funds and assuming that, shareholder wealth maximisation is the
prime objective, then it would be in the:interest:of Strathburn Ltd to. adopt all.three-projects, since
they have positive NPVs.
Given that: the: available: capital -funds are limited. to CU2m, it is. not :possible: to: invest. in all.
projects. and so a choice: needs to: be made. The fact: that the same expected NPV (CU1.5m) is
achieved under options: 1 and’2.means that either option.can_be-selected.
14.4) | ‘Financial Management

(ii) The: limitations of applying expected value analysis 376 clearly highlighted by Strathburn, Ltd's

dilemma.

o Expected value analysis is only appropriate. where an activity or, process will, recur
frequently. It is:particularly "inappropriate: where a company's management are considering a
one-off-decision such.as this.

© Expected values take. no account of the: risks involved in an investment, ie ‘the range or
‘variability of possible.outcomes, For example, in Strathburn-Ltd's»case the first:option.has: a.
maximum value: of'CU5m and alow of —.CU1m, Option 2:results:in outcomes which.are:less
widely ‘dispersed with a high:of CU2.5m.and a low-of - CU1m..

০ Expected ‘values: ignore the investors’ attitude. to ‘risk. This can be: measured ‘by the :852 of
indifference curves.

‘© = Expected values will frequently not produce. a value which corresponds with. a possible
outcome. This is'the case for option ‘1, although in the:case of. option:2:the expected value of.

CUI.5m can.in fact:occur.

The. fact ‘that: Strathburn Ltd ‘is having to ‘use’ probabilities in association with NPVs -raises

problems, in ‘that: the probabilities’ are: estimates and could be difficult to calculate. A. particular

example.is illustrated in the.probabilities.associated with project LMT.
(iit) Other factors’that:merit consideration are as:follows:

o ‘How'well diversified.are the shareholders.of. Strathburn Ltd?

‘Well. diversified under portfolio. theory/GAPM requires: investors to.hold 15-20 well ‘chosen.

shares. This will,allow shareholders to diversify away any unsystematic:risk: ডে
‘Since Strathburn Ltd 19: 8 family-owned business, the owners are less likely to be fully [1
diversified and so. they should select. option 2: which :spreads their. investment: across two IAN
projects,:rather than.investment returns totally dependent on project LMT: [(P

© Assuming shareholders are risk-averse, the fact that. option. 2 has only ‘a 25% chance 01 u
making a negative NPV while-option.1 has a.58%.chance’ would lend support to the:selection R
of ‘projects GTV and: CUJ.

o ‘Tf the. shareholders are: well diversified, then the criteria for selecting.a project.or not should —
be guided by the: ‘systematic 1191 (market. risk) carried by the. investment, ie the extent to 3)
which the investment earnings are:sensitive to changes in,the:macro economy..

® — The-.choice:of'discount-rate for the projects will need to take full account of the’ business and L
finance-risks associated ‘with.each.

9 SENATOR. TERRY TRUFO
Calculations of cash ‘flows
Ayerage-annual revenue = 0.6 x CU70,000 +.0.4 x CU40,000
='CU58,000
Post-first year-annual costs =0.6 x CU55,000-+ 0.4 x CU30,000
='CU45;000
First:year's costs ='CU55;000
(a) Accounting rate-of return
‘Risk and decision:making, | 11451

Initial investment
‘Legal costs 4,000
‘Machinery 40,000
Existing!equipment 1,000
45,000
Final’ book value
‘Machinery 5,000
Total depreciation (45,000 --5,000) 40,000
Total. production and labour costs (average) (9 « 45,000:+ 55,000) 460;000
Total-reallocated.fixed costs 50,000

Total revenue (average) 580,000
Total profit 30,000
Average annual profit 3,000
3,000
@ ARR = 49/000 ম10062/3%
3,000
(ii) ARR = 2(45,000+5,000) J 199 12%
30,000
(ii) ARR = 45909 ২1005-662/3%
(b) Payback:
Payback‘is a measure based-on:relevant cash flows, which are as-follows.
Time Cash.flow Narrative
CU
0, (20,000) First.instalment on.printing machinery
0. (2,000) Opportunity’cost:of existing plant
1 (20,000) Second instalment:on printing:machinery
1. (55,000) First -year's.labour-and production cost
2-10, 13,000 Net:cash ‘inflows. from, project:
10 5,000 Scrap proceeds of-plant
1:1. 58,000 Final, year's, revenue
Notes
(1) The: legal and academic research has already been done, and the cost of it is: not saved if the
‘project’ does:not proceed. 1019 a:sunk.cost.
(2) Fixed costs reallocated to the project:are:not cash flows:
The-cash outflows. at'times' 0 and ‘1 (total €CU97,000) are recouped at a rate of CU13,000 per'year’
‘and hence‘are ‘repaid:in’7.46 years
Since'cash inflows start at time 2, payback:is in-8.46 years or’nine years ifsreceipts are assumed to
‘arise at year-ends.
(c) Internal rate of return.
NPV’ @ 8% = 010,939 (see part (d) below)
Since:this 18 positive'the second 'guess'.is higher, reducing the ০০০৮০ the later: positive cash flows.,
Hence; NPV @ 12% = CU(8,878) (again, see part-(d))
The IRR ‘must therefore be between,8% and. 12%.
us ‘Financial. Management

By interpolation,
NPV,
TRR =a + NPM NPY (68-8)
10,939
= 84 10,939 - (-8,878) ১ (12-8)
=8 +22
= 10.2%, say 10%.
(d) Netpresent:value
Time Cash flows Discount Present Discount Present
factor. value factor. value.
@8% @8% @12% @12%
CU:000: 0000 00000
0 (22) 1. (22.000) 1. (22.000)
1 (75) 0.926 (69.450) 0.893 (66.975)
2—10 13 5.784. (W1) 75.192 4.757(W1) 61.841
10 5 0.463 2.315 0.322 1.610
11. 58 0.429, (W2) 24.882 0.287 (W2) 16.646
10:939 (8.878)
WORKINGS (G}
0) AF —10) = AF(— 10) — DF(1) ty
At 8%. AF(2 — 10) = 6:7.1-—0.926 = 5:784 A
At 12% AK(2 — 10) = 5.65 — 0.893 =4,757 RA
=
y \14
(2) DRI) = (+h) R
_
At 8% DF(11) = 1-08" = 9.429 —
1 8
At 12% 001) 5 1-12" 20:287
(e) Sensitivity L
(i) ‘Required rate:of-return
As shown in part.(c) the project has an TRR of. 10%; therefore the required-rate of return can.rise
from. 8% to 10% before. the investment decision would change. This represents .a rise’ of 2
percentage points:or

8 x 100'="25%
(iiy Sales revenue
‘Present: value of sales revenue is
AF(2 — 11 @ 8%)-x:'CU58,000 = (5.784 + 0:429) x CU58,000
= CU360;354
The-percentage change in sales revenue required to change the decision is given by
10,939
380,394 100% = 3:04%
(ii) ‘Life of project
If’ project were. shortenéd.by one year the’ NPV would fall by
DF(11 @ 8%) x 58,000.— 17010 @ 8%) X 45,000
= 0.429 X 58,000.—'0.463 x 45,000
= CU4,047
‘Risk and decision:making, | 147)

Shorten the: project:by:a further’year and ‘the NPV falls by
DF(10 @ 8%) x 58,000—DF @ 8%):x:45;000.
= 0.463 x 58,000.-.0.500 x 45,000
= CU4,354
The-NPY of the project.is thus reduced to 10,939 - 4,047 — 4;354 = CU2,538,
PV of. cash. flows:of the-eighth year are
DFO @ 8%) -*'58,000 — 7৮08 @ 8%) x 45,000
=-0.50:x:'58,000 — 0.54 x 45,000
= CU4,700
This.is sufficient to change-the, positive.NP-V (CU2,538) into a negative:and hence-alter, the initial
decision.to-go’ahead.
3-years
‘Sensitivity = 10 years or. 30%
Note: The: effect:of receiving the!sale: proceeds of plant-earlier‘is small and has been ignored.
10. COMFIFEET LTD
(a) Determination of:the benefit of advertising’
Assessment of-the: advertising decision
20X1 ‘20X2 ‘20X3 20X4
CcUm CcUm CUm CUm
Additional contributions (W1) 1,330 0.998 0.665
Tax thereon, (0.279) (0.210) (0.140)
Working’capital (W2): (0.095) 0.024 0.024 0.047
Advertising (1.000) (1.000) (1.000)
Tax thereon, 0:210 0.210 0.210
(0.885) 0.285 0.022 0.572
Discount-factor 1.000 0.909 0.826 0.751
Discountéd (0:885) 0.259 0.018 0.430
NPV =CU(0.178)m
Therefore, do.not-advertise.
WORKINGS
(1): Additional contributions ;
20K2 CU10m ((0.25 x 0.60) + (0.10:« 0.40)) x 0.70 1.330
20K3, CU7.5m.((0:25 x 0.60) + (0:10:x:0.40)) x'0.70 0.998.
208 CUSm (0:25. 0:60) +:(0.10, x 0:40) x 0:70 0.665
(2) Working:capital on additional sales
20X1 1.900: .0.05 (0.095)
20X2 (1.900 — 1.425) x 0.05 0.024:
20X3 (1.425 — 0:950) x 0:05 0:024
20K4 0.950:X 0.05 0:047
(b) Determination of'the factory closure-date
Assessment of. the closure decision
20X1 20K2: 20X3 204
CUm. CUm, CUm CcUm
Contributions (sales:x 0.70) 7:000 5.250 3:500
Tax.thereon (1.470) (1.103) (0:735)
Rent (4.000) (4.000) (4.000)
Tax. thereon 0:840 0.840 0:840
Plant (1.000) 0:200
Capital allowances (W3) 0.042, 0:034 0.028 0:086
KB | ‘Financial Management

(0.022)
Fixed costs (0.700) (0.700) (0-700).
Tax thereon 0.147 0.147 0.147
Redundancy-payments, 0.400 (0:450)
Tax thereon (0.084) 0:095
Working Capital (W4) (0.500) 0.125 0.125 :0:250
(5.164) 1.976 0.587 3.233
Discount:factor 1.000 0.909 0:826 0.751,
Discounted, (5.164) 1.796 0.485 2.428
NPV’ =:CU(0.455)m
‘Therefore close.the factory in 20X1..
WORKINGS
(3). Capital allowances
CUm. CUm
‘20W8 Cost 2.000.
WDA 0.360.
‘1.640,
20W9 WDA 0.295
1.345
.20X0 WDA (0.242)
‘1.103
either B
20X11. Disposal 1.000 0)
Balancing allowance 0.103 @ 21% 0:022. A
or P
20X11. ‘WDA 0.199 @ 21% 0:042. T
বর 0.904 | A
20X2: WDA. 0.163 @ 21% 0.034 R
0.741
20X3 WDA. 0.133 @ 21% 0:028 L
0.608
20x4 Disposal 0.200 3
Balancing allowance 0.408 @ 21% 0:086
(4) ‘Working capital on basic-sales
CUm
20X1. 10.000:x 0.05 (0.500)
20X2: (10.000 — 7.500) x 0:05: 10,125
20X3 (7.500,— 5.000):x 0.05 0.125
204 5.000 x 0.05 0.250
11 GFL
(a)
20X6 ‘20X7 20X8 20X9
YO Yi Y2 Y¥3
:CU'000 0000 CU'000 CU'000
Machine sale (1,100.000)
forgone
Tax .on.machine. (220.853)
sale forgone (W1)
Revised machine: 200.000
sale
Revised,machine
tax
savings (W2) 81.333 66.693. 261.826
Contract price 2;,000.000 5,000.000
Tax on contract (420.000) (1,050)
‘Risk and decision: making, | 1149.

Materials (W3), (836.400) (977.058)
Labour (W3) (1,503.990) (1,784.969)
Tax saved on 491.482, 580.026
Mats/Lab:
Total cash flow 760.480 (2,202:215) 3,279.825 . (1,050)
Factor ‘1,000 0:917 0.842 0:772
PY 760:480 (2,019.431) 2,761.613 (810.600)
NPV 692.062.
Thus:the:NPV is:positive-with,a total project price of:CU7 million;and should be:accepted.
(b) Break-even, project:price:
'y = reduction in income in year:2.
0.8429 = 0.21y x 0.772-= CU692,062
0.67988y = CU692,062
y = CU1,017,918
Thus, breakeven income in year. 2-="CU5,000,000 —.CU1;017,91'8 = CU3;982,082
Total project price = ‘CUS, 982,082
(c) Possible risks with overseas investment (excluding forex)-are:
e —_- Finaiicing, eg borrow locally to offset political risk?
০ Political.risk, eg mild. political interference.or more.severe?
৩. Business risk, eg level of:systematic:business:risk.abroad and.discount:rate?
© Tax, -e: corporation ‘tax raté,-capital allowances, ‘tax treaties?
০ Remitting:funds back to:Bangladesh, eg dividends, royalties, management:charges?
° Culture; eg.different business practices?
WORKINGS
(107. Machine — seil
CU'000
Cost 3,200.000
WDA.X4 576.000
WDV X4 2,624.000
ঘা 472.320.
WDV X5 2,151.680
‘Bal, Adj X6 1,051,680
gale:X6 1,100.000.
Tax.on.Bal.all @ 2196 220.853
(2). Machine — carry on
20X6 20X7 20X8
WDV bff. 2,15:1.680 1,764.378 1,446.790°
WDA 387.302 317.588 1,246.790.
WDV/sale 1,764.378 1,446:790 200.000
Taxon WDA 81:333 66.693 261:826
(3)
1.02. 1.03
Materials Real —820.000 —930.000,
‘Money. -836.400 —977.058
Labour t/f '¥.1 — 6 months (premium) Real —34.500 a
‘Labour 0042, (premium) Real 69.000:
Labour new % 17 6 months Real —190.000
Labour new: 42. Real —380.000
Supplementary‘workers' Real —830.000 -830.000
150) | ‘Financial Management

Extra.trianagement Real ~420.000 420.000
Total wages Real —1,474:500 —1,699.000
Money —1,503.990 —1,784.969
iC)

A
RA
v
Ee
R
P
‘Risk and decision:making, | 1151]

Se en eee ee
sa ee + ane ees Se Ba ages eee ক Re . vat ray 84 4 tena RAR a ee eae a 4
ES grote a eae DET ema ২ Re eS mea ah reat ১ ০ “SOS
es 22 দে iy ER ae হা" জা te ও SS ee eas ওতে ‘BES ডা via as Pein বা
eres hac pa Sess Sees SSS I tes Seen চি ৮৪২১১ যদ ০ ৭০০
0৮০০৩ ৷ দল টা i it ডং | সা Har হা ও পা hes
০ ec es eed (BS A নি. 1 পচ 0112 ১ তন ক em eo
ও হে fee টা তার sel LS ee Se Ey. oe
SS eee
Introduction.
Examination.context.
Topic List

1 Capital markets, risk.and return

2 Sources of equity finance

3. Sources of.debt:finance

4 Intémational:money-markets

5. Ethics

6 Capital market efficiency

7 Behavioural:finance.
Summary ‘and.Self-test
Answers to Interactive:questions
Answers.to-Self-test:

[ss

Introduction

Learning objectives Tick off
-ও Assess the suitability of different:financing options for. a given. business [i]
e Explain the:characteristics of.different types of: finance il
৩০ Explain.the'role‘of different types of finance [
The syllabus:references that relate to this.chapter-are 1b, ১10১1
Syllabus links:
The ,implications. of, a financing ‘decision will be seen in Financial ‘Reporting, Taxation and Auditing. It will be
explored further at advanced level and in the final case study, as it. is one of the. most important decisions a
business will take.
Examination.context
Exam questions wili not only require the candidate*to be:aware:of ‘practical sources of finance but-dlso to be-able to
assess;their, suitabilityto given situations,

156) | ‘Financial Management

1. Capital'markets, risk and.return:
Section overview
৫] ০ Capital markets: provide a:source of funds for companies and an exit:route for investors.
© — Risk-and return go hand in hand, and companies need'to bear-in-mind the tisk-return-trade-off of.investors:.
e The main-sources’of finance:raised by.issuing securities are.
— Equity, or ordinary share-capital
— Preference shares
— Loan stocks or-debentures.
The market for funds:is wide and.crosses national boundaries. It:is false to talk about.a single capital market. There
are‘many ways in which:firms can,access funds, :including:
National stock markets in Bangladesh, this includes: the. Dhaka Stock Exchange (‘the Stock: Exchange’) and
‘thé Chittagong Stock, Exchange which, not only. act as markets for ‘second-hand!
‘securities. such as sharés, but also actias a primary source of néw funds,.eg via new
-share issués.-
The banking system this can be split between the*retail market! and the wholesale:market, which service
individuals/small businesses and.large‘companies.respectively.
Bond (debt) markets generally the province of ‘very large: organisations raising typically large amounts of
money,
Leasing this is‘a very important:source: of capital.finance for a whole variety of companies: iC}
Debt factoring normally used by smaller organisations: to help ‘finance. their working capital AN
requirements. P
Government and-European.__ this type-of assistance-_promotes development of industry in underdeveloped areas or চ
চ্য্যা10 grants in-overseas markets. R
International ‘markets typically available ‘to larger companies, these markets allow funds ‘to be raised in
different currencies, typically in yery large amounts. ৫
1.2) Risk 31101600171) রা
The type of finance.used, by a.commercial organisation — whatever market (see above) is utilised —‘ultimately takes
the form, of, debt capital or equity capital (also. known, as ordinary share. capital): Whilst there are. many-forms of
these two-types of capital, the key characteristic that distinguishes them is:that they.have different.levels. of risk.
Debt holders face lower risk. than shiargholders. They-receive interest’ before shareholders receive any dividends,
and-in the event’of company failure, the debt-holders will rank:higher.than.the equity-holders.. This means' that: any.
capital:amounts' due to the:debt holders will be.repaid before the:shareholders: receive anything.
The debt.holders havea price to pay for this lower risk: however; they’ will receive:a lower rate of return on. their
capital.
Sources of:finance. | [1571

The shareholders: position is more.risky — they will suffer, the downside of any loss. Correspondingly, they will
expect-a higher rate of-return. Thus any profits will goto the shareholders,.not the-debt-holders;
There are of course different varieties. of capital within this framework — for example; preference shares. will,
usually have a;risk somewhere between debt and ordinary shares.
In summary, risk and return go hand in hand. Therefore in structuring its capital finances, a company must have
regard to the-risk-return trade-off‘desired by-potential-investors.
‘1.3, Issued:capital.

The following sections explore the key characteristics.of equity, preference shares and debt capital, and examine
the:factors which:need to:be‘considered when businesses and:investors come to choose between them. These-forms
of:capital invariably involve issuing-securities (ie sharesior bonds).

(a Definitions’
Equity ‘represents the. ordinary: shares in the business. Equity shareholders are the. owners of the business and
through their voting rights exercise ultimate-control.
Preference:shares form part of the :risk-bearing ownership. of. the business. but; since they are entitled to their
dividends beforé ordinary shareholders, they carry’less risk: As their return:is usually a fixed maximum dividend,
they are similar‘in many’‘ways to debt.
Loan, stocks ‘and: debentures’ are typically fixed ‘interest rate borrowings with a set- repayment. date. Most are
secured.on specific:assets or assets:in.general such'that‘lenders are protected (in-repayment terms)‘above unsecured
creditors:in a liquidation.

158} | ‘Financial Management

A tablé summarising and contrasting the-main‘features of these.general forms of finance follows.
zg
v. eo ডে
[ নাসা .
a লে (ডঃ = on
SS Bi ew. é
BR | wos. ce
SS thet Tog mo
28 | mig B Boi
Os | mote FR 22:
চু fi fet n Sc
3 52:25
o to Nx 2: ০
৫ ici ‘e Fes] 2
ga] 3 OE: 2
ww! Zi & এ
2Q
(| & “03 10)
Be |g 8 SF aye 2৬ Bee
Sw [280 ও হ ©. Qe লট CS | x
28 |ঙ 8265 2২8১2523832 5:38 | 4
ছুট | SCG Sa BS এ se ie oO | he
oo) Oe Se Ok ওল ডে BS oO ৪ চে
TS [5:88 SD ee Me ee Os cy Sr ee a O09:
ed MEEQO ভে oe VM. গুড! Se jet 7B! ১৯২৫৮: ৬০১৫) তের
8- | Mies & Bo 3 238 G5 Oto | '6
= 30, cs, So" 6018০52১০20 es Gy "০
3 io: es ৮৪ ও ঠা ও 22 as |S
Pee Se S oO won ৫১ চে oF me
vw Bio 855 83:28:15: 2 we |
iW:
_ =, wa ~
Ss, Tel ve oe =,
fs ES 3 ৬
at Ore os £0. w!
12) tal = তে oO *S 4c:
ep 1; 10: oma তত OO HS Gi ee
oS se, 30; ০25 280:
‘5.8: D1: ও 8 G2)
> সে 00:1৮ os LS ০ ae
tS) FS! wig) eS aw SSeS Biwi
eS FO: see 3S 3 “SG SG!
০: ০ 1; oo ke ew et re} 0. ao)
Eo; oo cee FSD. Of Miele:
2 iG) NU, 2 9 Boe
ওঃ উজ ৪্র- O ৮০৪ OSGi
fur IM smi to 0৪ Gin
wee RAS! To. "25208
পু: কট) টস |
TM 523 {00 @ 8: 03-5
Lo gee: ow A
ED. ben: OO
Ne rie ees P
ig 56: oa wee O
is 25 SY v
i FO: kay: 2০2০. |
Peed 7M: id! >
oxi ite Z> tees
se iG: _ 23 R
হে হিম Cy a@..
7S 19) Oo wa ER
rot Si so} ১৮ তাপে রা
©: থে; ps ডে aos Pp @
“ wi foxy 35
2! ভা] 25s ৫
X se |S
. S | (a ক
১ ৩০
ষ 4 ae
AN o aos fe)
৬ OF | us. >
ৰং 10, 36 £00!
Ws ips ন্‌ হা
2 "\; | #5i cet ডে
i NY colvat ro
iS} | fai toy’ 0.
Sources of:finance. | 159)

ই এ
ডি
দে
® 9 Paw)
+4 0০০ ০ ra
ও cal
5 oy fav 2
xe = zen 7
ey Qc c o
oo xO 9চ
S| os g3s- | 8
Bo | St ORs ও
শত বন্দ ' :
Be | Ss soe 3
fad ae ০ ৫৬ oO
uy 5 লে o 2
a. 57a 6 >cC =.
ra oS চন D =
3 গত ০০০৪ =
৫৯ c vo a @
a ees 3 ০
(স্ব ) -_
= 6 2 চলি ন্‌
B “eS ~ 85 3 ney
3 ove SOR -. o
৪ Eo = go চা যম
নি =a = C20 2 Q.
8 | 2s Ses |8 |§
33 | cog Qowx 3 ০
ল লেটেছতে লেকে শত wo
Q. see es 5১ 1
os Je শু” ৫? চ ০
3. 5 Coc OGc= 5 =
— Ss 535 c= 3.
>= ea Ecas কত ,
iy ডল ডউ০০৪০ [22 =
3 o 28 Oo >o -€ g
9S ig 8 o=: 8 AS 2
% 2G শু os |=
নে gy ৬ টা SE &
Los 2225 2 oO
Cc5sae |ER | a
ক [০
= বক <¢ Ds . *
8. 2১৬৩ ga. # 2 > o
টু w OF EF om @. 2 =
; cro OERDL] জেতে a}
6 Sec O5o08 ৫১ Cc P=]
SEN 20a 855] a চকে 5
টক রশ ৫০৫৬৩ ০৫ oP 5
538 চডছ582 ~ oO 3
= 3 OOSOeaBe ort bs
ae S00 US O BD a5 5
v5 E®px~S las) 6G &£
va Eg iprage 50৫. টা
Po Fy o 2 Sage °
o 22 ৪ 5 | ofa
5 BOS সাকা চে
৬ 265৩৮5৬৮৪৮০ ।ওডওঠর৮ট্ এ ০
o veseusce27s Soe. 12 2
a STROEGED) FoF B 5 5
x 5 soe or Ox. ®o @ Co.
EBVDO'S VS Xx Oos Eo}
সক 2ze2z|/eoog8 | = ©
: £ 2
| DED! tC S00 ra) m4
© ;
2 Da >. on
> হে তে iS
~ al
& £2s = eo uo = 2a SE
= “SP 8G 52.5 3 © Dt
সি Born, os 22s 3 oa
© SP 5৮282 = Bi ত্র দস
3 DZone D2 NL ® ০5233
2 * 3 : ® D Ke] es.
5 Bosaeee 222 3 co.
~ SEclaes | 3089 8 cee
: Bu ৫০চছ০ণ্ছ on 2 bead = 290
So a OS চু চ [41 ৬৮ Cc
25235 oD 25 5 ‘Ee
& Oe Soslzw See c ০০-5
টু ৮5১23252258 3) ডুকে wn se OE ৪
S 55258223288 5259 | 2 nfo td
2ODT GFA: Rao c € চে ৫ ৫&
2 52 ছা দ্য চে ৪53৩ a 0&5 #
৯০3৩5 ৪2 2 9 sec a Soo
নও 558 S258 |Z apse
Zeonc | 2482 ডে
~~
এ
\ ৪5 2
: j =
i o
3s | § 5
Ee] = & E.2°9
a. , ao
০ c তেও
কে a 0.6
5 2 eee
® © সং
E টে o 2:2
>. jon ৷ =0O-5
oC .. “Cc [= 2৭83০
© Ze Fa 8 oa
| 2s ae & | 83
৪ Oe g o2c
যো Financial Management

চু z
> তে
© Bu
হম
Pwr এ o&
se 25
5 £6
22% [2s
Se | Bs
o8 | ZY
3 £s
2 | Bs
./|s |28
3S C3
Ey rw
Q a3
ant moet)
e | 35
2 ve ¥3
৬৩... তে দা v
2s = 2S Ss; 3
53 oc সে s ha
&o oes ® 3
o& c >: L ঢু
S§ > ;
S83 |\ses 5 > 3
3 [avy 5 g
& o— ¥ 2 চে হু
3 S83 D i
3 58 8 @ 5 2
& |see 2 5 চু
v= এ < 2
সে
, rs)
> Be
= cs 5
= 8 £ gS
চলা:
5.
So |e 28 §
“> ৫৬. ৫ 23 3
oS a= eo 22
s& | 25 sas
3 ce Sass os
83 £oa. a6 ৫ সি
2 von ৩০ ir
o ns $ 2348 >
s Die 2 COGS Pa) i
& 50 2 চ 22 তে g
2 Luk oes 2 ¢ 3
17 তে :§ ‘ 3 5
০ 2৩৬ 3 esse চু 2
es - oO 5 c
25৬. ees 2 3
wo 5.
HM 6% 6 m4 3
: cd
S |£eges |58উড | 2S SS2
& = asia = = &
x >of ES S5y0 ees 8
“ 2332 Ry 2৩:23 ৬ 58৮8 A
5 Sesees তই. ১835 a
i os তে. — জর Sy a কে
2683285 (2288 3০:৪5
মু 58888 (SEER তান ¥
5 ges ঠ- 528 veges
is rosea & S282 So Se
s Seacan | opes ০2255
2 CLoalwen 4OES os 3 s
ও £১222852 |euss eE5oS | 2 R
c= cusic c me) 3 2 cS oY wv ot
Soe 85s o£ 9 = o, ox =
S22 222 aPses speck :
23% Res ouvss Ses Os 3
2024 ৬ asSav Fes ko 2
— e OS O'6N ০9
BS °
Ss.) op
S| 3
_ 3 oe ===
৬ 2 sy
২।৮ গন 3 ।
যা eS i)
দি ১৮ Ee =
oa “ay 5
os > ° ~
5s cw "ত্র
25 সা 8
55 DH &
64. ss 8 g
oD 3 Bi 3
os pe 55
.
oo Bic as 3
; as রে
Sources of: finance. | 1061

2, Sources of equity finance
=> . .
Section overview
LEG .
° Retained earnings
This is the main_source’of finance for.most, companies.
° _ Rights issues
The law protects:shareholders by. requiring'that any new issues are first‘offered to the existing shareholders.
° ‘New issues,
Used by large companies; looking to raise:typically large amounts in a high-profile (but, expensive) manner.
There are broadly three:methods of raising equity:
Method) Reallworldlusc)
Retentions, ieiretaining profits, rather than-paying them ‘By'far'and away the:most important, source of equity.
out as dividends
Righits .issués,-ie-an issue of :new-shares to existing The:next most important:source.
shareholders
New. issues. to the public, ie an.issue of new shares to The:least:important.source-of-new, equity
new: shareholders
2:1, Retained:earnings
The profits earned by a business can either be paid.out to shareholders in the. form.of dividends:or reinvested.in the
business. There is sometimes a misconception that because.no new'shares are, being sold, using:retained profits has
no cost.
There may be no issue costs but:shareholders will still expect: a return on the. funds re-invested in the business, ‘ie
they will expect the-funds:to be:invested. in, projects which-increase their wealth. Hence’ there isa cost to be borne.
Retentions (strictly pre-depreciation which.isn't a.cash flow):represent a very:easy and important:source of finance,
particularly for young: growing businesses where there ‘may be a continual need টা, funds but: where it: is
impractical to. keep raising them using rights/new issues (and.debt).
Chapter 7 on equity sources and dividend policy considers whether it matters, in terms. of ‘shareholder wealth,
which.source of equity :finance’is used.
2:2: Rights issues

4 Definition:

, AL A:rights issue:is,an.issue of new’shares for cash to existing shareholders in. proportion:to their existing holdings.
Legally a rights issue must be: made before a new issue: to the public; existing shareholders have rights of first
refusal (pre-eitiption rights) on 006 new shares: and can, by taking them up, maintain their existing percentage
holding in ‘thé company. However, shareholders can, and often do, waive: these rights, by selling them, to others.
Shareholders.can vote to rescind-their pre-emption,rights.

162} | ‘Financial Management

2:3; Impact of a‘rights issue:
The price‘at.which the new:shares are‘issued.is generally. much less than the prevailing:market ‘price for the:shares.
This .is to make the: offer. relatively attractive to: shareholders and encourage. them. either to take up their rights or’
sell.them:so the’issue;is fully;subscribed. It:also acts-as a:safeguard should the market:price of the.company’s shares
fall before the:issue is:completed. If the price were to fall.below the rights price, the issue would not. be:much of:a
success.
The ex-rights price, ie'the price ‘at which the shares will settle after the. rights ‘issue‘has' been made, is calculated as
follows:(assuming that the.rights proceeds are ‘invested in a‘new project):
market, value-of ‘shares pre-rights issue+ rights proceeds + project NPV
, number of shares ex-rights
_ PV of new total dividénds
' number of shares ex-rights
If. an examination -question.does:not.give the NPV ০006 project in which.the-funds are invested, assume it is:-nil.
Ay Worked‘example: ‘Theoretical ex-rights price:
A company has ‘100,000:shares with a.current:market price of CU2 each..
. It.announces an increase in:share ‘capital to be: achieved by a rights issue of one.new share for.every two existing.
shares. The rights.price‘is CU1 per:new share, thus raising CU50,000 for.investment-in the new project:
Requirements
(a) Work out'the theoretical éx-rights price
(b) Calculate the value of the right’to subscribe’ for:each new'share
(a)
Each shareholder: Company. as a:whole
Value‘of existing shares 2, at 2 পের 10000090002. 00200,000
‘Value-of ‘capital. injected ৪
by rights.issue . CUl . 7 ,
I ‘at: _ Cul 50,000 at CU1 = CU50,000 EA)
ও shatés cus 150,000 curs0000 9
Theoretical ex-tights price = CU5/3 shares =.CU1.66°/; per share u
(b) Value-of-the right'to subscribe:for each:new-share R
= ex rights price.—;subscription price
= CU1.66 7/;—CU1 Q
= 66 /:p
Value-of a right per existing share-= 66 */sp/ 2:=.33' '/3p 1
Does it: make ‘any difference to the wealth of an existing shareholder, whether they sell the rights, exercise the
rights-or simply.do nothing?
iC se Worked ‘example:: Impact of ‘a rights issue‘on‘shareholder wealth:
৷ B Assume:a Shareholder'owns 1,000 shares:in the company whoseshare value was described above.
. ° _Pre-rights price ="CU2
© —-Ex-rights price = CU1.66°/p
° Subscription price = CU1
Sources of: finance. | 163}

০ লি 1 for 2:rights issue
Requirement.
Show the shareholder's position. if:
(a) He'takes up his rights
(৮) He:sells.his:rights for 667/3p per:new ‘share
(c) He does‘nothing.
(a) Takes uprights
CU
Step:1: Wealth prior to rights issue. 1,000 x. CU2 2,000,
Step:2: Wealth post rights issue
Shares 1,500. x.CU1.662/3: 2,500
Less fights cost 500 x. CUI (500)
. No change 2,000
(b) Sells rights:
Step 1: Wealth prior to rights issue 1,000 x CU2 2,000
Step.2: Wealth post rights issue
Shares 1,000 x'CU1.662/3 1,667
Sale‘of rights: 500 x.CU0.662/3 333
. No change 2,000
(c) Does:nothing
CU
Step 1: Wealth prior to rights-issue: ‘1,000 x'CU2 2,000
‘Step.2: Wealth post:rights issue 1,000 x:CU1.66-2/3 1,667
. Loss.of €U333
In:principle, the rights issue has no impact; on shareholder, wealth,-unless.the shareholder, does nothing at all. The
above example is, however, simplified as companies don't usually have tights issues unless they. need the:capital
for some good reason - such,as.a project.
The above company raises the-CU50,000 in order.to take:on,a project with an expected’NPV of CU25,000.
Summary of data
° Current:market price‘is CU2 per'share
০ 100,000:shares currently in.issue.
০ চি for.2 rights issue 40001] will raise the:CU50;000
Requirements
(a) What.is the value of the:company after the.new project.and the:new issue?
(b) What.js‘the ex-rights price per share and the value of the-right?
(c) Assume:a shareholder owns 1,000 shares. What is'the effect.on‘the shateholder's wealth if he:
(0) takes-up his rights.
(ii) sells his rights
011) does-nothing
See Answer at the end.of'this chapter.
1164) | ‘Financial Management

2.5, Changing'the terms

In the above example, the terms of the issue:were one new share (at-a price.of €U1) for every two:shares currently

held.

What difference:would it make to shareholders’ wealth‘if the.terms“were.altered?

| ‘oy Interactive question 2: Changing the terms’ (Difficulty level: Intermediate],
Pe The company in Interactive.question 1. raises’the required CU50,000 by issuing new‘shares on.a one-for-one basis:
~ at 50p‘per'new. share. Show what would happen to the;shareholder's wealth (from:the worked example).if.he

(a) Takes up:his rights

(b) Sells his rights

See. Answer at the end-of this chapter.

You should.have demonstrated-that.the terms and the price.do‘not: affect the: shareholders who take. up or-sell their

rights,

2.6. Eactors’to be considered when making rights issues’

2, [35৮6 costs — these have been estimated at:around:4% on CU2m raised.but, ‘as:many of the costs are fixed, the
percentage falls as the sum‘raised increases ৪

০ Shareholder reactions —. shareholders may-react badly to firms continually making rights issues as they are FA
forced ¢ithér to take up their rights or sell ‘them (doing nothing decreases their wealth, as. in, the: worked A
example above). They may sell their sharés.in the conipany, driving.down the market price P

© Control — unless:large numbers:of existing ‘shareholders sell their, rights. to new shareholders there: should be: ¥
little:impact:in, terms‘of control 0016 business by existing shareholders 8

০ _Unlistéd companies. — these: often, find fights issues difficult ‘to use, ‘because: shareholders. unable ‘to raise
sufficient: funds ‘to take ‘up their tights may not have available the: alternative of selling them if the ‘fitm's
‘shares are not.listed. This could mean that’the firm‘is forced to use retentions or raise.loans ৫

These account for around 10% of new. equity’finance but when. they occur they are often large in terms of the

amount-raised.. They are: often used ৪0006 time a firm: obtains 8 listing-on the.Stock Exchange, and wants to raise.a

yery large‘amountiand therefore needs:a-high profile issue:

There are two methods of making.a public-offer,-and they-are best illustrated diagrammatically:

Sources of: finance. | 165}

Offer for sale Direct offer or
Offer for
subscription
X ple
‘nares'sold to an P
issuing house:
(investment. bank)
v ‘Shares direct
public
Issuing house
offers‘shares:for
sale:to general
ঢা public Y .
Investing Investing
public public
In practice the offer for sale: is: far more common; in either method ‘the issue is likely: to be underwritten (see
below). There is:no restriction on the-amount‘of capital raised by this method.
2.8. Underwriting:
(=) _ Definition.
(aa Underwriting is the process whereby, in exchange for a fixed fee, usually 1-2% of'the total.finance to be raised,
an institution or group of institutions will undertake'to purchase any securities not subscribed for by. the public.
In, issues of securities which: entail the public being invited to subscribe, there is a possibility ‘that: there will. be
insufficient démand for all securities to’be sold. This possibility is an especially imiportant consideration ‘when, a,
fixed:issue price must be set:in.advance of the issue date:and the .market-is volatile — in.such:cases there:is a danger’
that market miovements will iiake an offer unattractive at the:time Of its public announcement; even though, it:may
have appearéd attractive when being.arranged.
Failuré. to sell all securities offeréd may undermine a firm's investment: plans, espécially where these concern, a,
large, indivisible investment. Hence, underwriting is a;formi of instance which, ensures that all securities are sold
and the firm:can be.certain of obtaining’thé funds required.
The main disadvantage of underwriting ,is its cost. The: cost depends upon ‘the characteristics. of the company
issuing the security and ‘the state of thé market. The cost is payable even if-the underwriter, is not called upon to
take'up any sécuritiés. Hence underwriting increases the cost of Taising finance,
1601 | ‘Financial Management

3: Sources of: debt finance.
দম Section overview
“১৫ ০ Convertibles — debt with:an:equity 00111141011, borrowing easier to-secure.
e ‘Leasing —-a’major'source of funding for:capital expenditure:
© Other forms of ‘debt —relevant'to a variety of organisations depending on the-context.
Straightforward sources’ of debt: finance, such as term. loans and loan ‘stock; were covered. in the’ Business and
Finance paper:.
3.1: Convertible loans:
ae Convertible loans are fixed. return-securities-— either secured or unsecured — which may be converted, ‘at.the:option
' 01015 holder, ‘into. ordinary shares' in the same company. Prior to conversion the holders have creditor status,
although their rights‘may'be subordinated to those. of trade payables.
‘3.1.1. Conversion-riglits aré stated in.terms of:
ও A conversion ratio (ie the number‘of-ordinary shares into which'CU100 06900010187 be converted); or
e A conversion price (ie:the right to.convert into-ordinary shares at a price-of °X per share)
For example, '€U100 of. stock may be converted into: 25 ordinary shares" is a-conversion ratio; ‘Stock may: be:
converted into shares at-a’value-of 400p per share’ is the equivalent conversion price.
Sometimes. the conversion. price: increases during the ‘period ‘of convertibility — this is done to stimulate early
conversion. Another ‘variation. 1s.to issuepartly convertible stocks whereby‘only a portion of the stock — perhaps
50%: -— may be: converted. Conversion rights usually cater for an adjustment. to: those rights in the event of
capitalisation (ie-a bonus.issue), rights issues-and so on.
From, the investor's point. of view, convertible: stocks offer a low-risk. security with. the added. advantage: of. an, .
opportunity to.study‘share price: movements before deciding:whether. to:invest in the equity. A
pee ns ১ P
;3-1:2; {he issuing:company, benefits by: T
‘© «= Obtaining’ finance at. a lower rate of interest than. on ordinary debentures (provided that prospects for the cE
company are good). R
° Encouraging possible investors with the’prospect of a future:share in profits..
৩ Introducing:an .element’of short-term: gearing-(covered 68 তা 06000110110: 00104010176), ৫
৩ Avoiding redemption 07061210910 the debt is‘converted into equity.
° _Being’able to issue equity cheaply (if converted). —_—_
3.2’ Loan stock with warrants
These are loan stocks which cannot themselves be converted.into equity but.give-the holder the right'to subscribe:at
fixéd future-dates for ordinary shares:at,a predetermined price. The subscription Tights are known as warrants.
The difference between. a loan. stock. with, warrants and. 4;convertible debenture. is that, with a warrant; the loan
stock itself is not converted into equity; but bondholders make a cash, payment to acquire the shares and fétain
their loan. stock. This means thatthe loan stock-will.continué.in existence until itis redeémed.
Warrants, have value-when the market: price. of shares rises above the price specified in’the warrant: They are used.
aé:a ‘sweetener’ for debt-issues, allowing the: firm to place alow interest rate.on the loan.
The cost,to-the firm is the-right given to holders to buy:equity at a.(possibly) reduced price atthe exercise date.
Sources of: finance. | 167

'3:3: Toan:documentation
(3.3.1, Introduction
In. section 1 above the risk-return, trade off-faced by shareholders and debt holders was introduced. Debt holders
will typically-face less risk; for which they expect a lower,return.
How. do they .ensure that their position; is low risk? To. achieve this, they ensure there is. adequate loan
documentation.
,3.3.2: Representations and warranties:
Before a:loan.is made,.a./ender will want the borrower to: give representations, and warranties about-their ability. to
borrow.and repay any loan.
The borrower -will therefore typically be required to answer questions 16 make representations on.a number of areas
including the.following.
Legality: of e 15:06 company incorporated?
borrowing e Is the company legally allowed to borrow?
e [5016 signatory:to the loan authorised-to do so?
© —_Is-the loan-within the provisions of the: Memorandum, and Articles of Association?
° Does. the.loan. breach any existing loan agreements?
Financial. ০ Do the.accounts show.a true and fair view-etc?
condition ; ; . . র্‌
০ Are‘there any. impending ‘court cases which would.affect the company's.financial position?
In-the event that the borrower is.found:to’be:in breach of warranty in one. of these areas,-this ig usually categorised,
asia default on theloan,. which would.nortally triggér.a démand for full repayment.
If the ‘ability of the:borrower to repay a.loan-is considered to be:in. doubt, the lender will-require a guarantee, Any’
default: would.mean’the lender. could seekirepayment fromthe guarantor.
Examples include:
eo _A parent.company. guaranteeing the loans.of a-subsidiary
‘8 A subsidiary guaranteeing the loans of a‘parent: this. upstream. guarantee would be:necessary. if the- parent
has little-or.no trade but is simply a holding company. The-subsidiaries have.the ability to generate cash flows
and 'they'own the“assets which:can be used as security
° Members of:a joint-venture becoming guarantors for one.another.
3.3.4, Covenants.
The borrower. will :need_ to commit to doing, or refrain from doing, various, things in order to protect the:lender's
position.,
Providing This: ‘can ‘include: financial statements, ‘interim. accounts, .quarterly .or monthly management
information ‘accounts.
Negative pledge The: botrower, pledges 1000 use: its assets as security for other borrowings such that the
position of other lenders would be:improved atthe expense of this:lender.
Financial ‘There are financial limits: within which 016 borrower ‘must trade.. Examples ‘include: gearing
covenants ratio, interest cover and the net worth of the business.
The:loan.documentation would.need to define precisely how these limits.are to be calculated.
Restrictions ‘The: covenants ‘will. limit the. ability 01 the business’ to. take. actions ‘which might damage the
lender's position.. These’ will ‘include:-restrictions:on taking.on more.debt, paying dividends and
‘making significant investments. These are explored:further‘in Chapter 6.
These covenants will be tested periodically. ‘This ‘will invariably be ‘when the annual, financial statements are
produced, but the-lender may want information more:frequently than once a_ year, in order to be alert to:any issues
that may be'developing.
KB | ‘Financial Management

___. Interactive question 3: Funding:a'business throughits growth phase;
(Ce ° ~ ~~ “" [Difficulty level: Intermediate],
ভে) Ian's Sandwich Empire
This one-person business starts up selling sandwiches from home-and develops into a national business over time.
Given;the characteristics at each:stage, suggest possible:sources:of funds.
Sage Ghanacioniisties Bossibictsourccsrofifunds)
Start-up Very small scale.
Make.at home.
Deliver by car to.local.customers (offices, trading:
estates etc).
Growth.to Need small premises and a van.
CU100,000
revenue pa
(Organic) Need,new larger premises with;refrigeration and
growth to. wefrigerated vans:
€U500,000
revenue pa
Growth to. Established a brand/name/reputation,and' wants: to
CU2:million expand. regionally.
revenue pa by.
acquisition
Growth.to ‘Want to use brand/name/reputation:more widely-— sell
CUS:million ready-made sandwiches‘to local independent retail
revenue pa outlets and local. branches 6f:national.retail chains
(using. their brand) on credit.
Growth. to Expand to-national scale; by combination of organic
CU50 million growth and acquisition: ও
revenue pa G)
Te &A
See: Answer at the end of this chapter. —P
a v
[৪
AL : 4 ope in. . ge R
4 International:money.markets:
SS] . ir ৫
2 Section:overview
11 ৩ The. international, money and capital markets provide Various possibilities in ‘the form of: financial,
instruments which the-tréasurérs of large companies may use for borrowing:or for finaricial investment. ——
o = These.instruments:include:eurocurrency, eurobonds and, euro-equity issues.
© When-deciding where to borrow, companies will consider:interest rates available, the.amount of finance
that can bé raised, ‘and the security. (if‘any) that/has to be-offered.
Small and medium-sized companies and other, enterprises are, usually. limited in their sources. of finance to theit
domestic markets. Larger companies.are able to seek. funds ‘in, intemational ‘financial markets. Funds-are not only
sought on ‘these global markets by multinationals: funds from overseas might be: used. by largér companies to
finance noh-current-asset acquisitions or ‘working capital in: domestic buSsinéss operations.
Sources of: finance. | 169)

4.1.2, What are they?

International money markets,,:sometimes called Euro markets, refers to dealing in funds outside their natural

markets. For example raising ‘a dollar loan. from a. London bank, or issuing bonds denominated in. a .currency

different:to the borrower's domestic currency.

The term. ‘Euro’ arose because ‘initially these: markets developed in Europe. The: main. currency traded ‘in ‘these.

markets .is the: dollar, known .as ‘the 'Euro-Dollar’. Other currencies’ are also traded .internationally outside their

domestic systems, hence. markets exist for 'Euro-Yen’, “Euro-Sterling’, etc. It should be explained that the prefix.

‘Euro’ refers to currencies traded outside. their natural domestic. market. It ‘is a slightly misleading: term,, as euro

currencies’ should not be confused with the euro, which is of'course‘a currency’inits:own. right.

4.2. International finance’

Forms of finance available:

The euro markets ‘comprise markets for‘Euro currency, Euro credits, and Euro bonds. They are entirely wholesale,

which. means‘individuals and small‘companies do not play a direct role, but rather very. large<organisations such as

banks make up the: market.

Euro currency market. ‘Normally refers to borrowing and-lending by banks in: currencies other than that of: the
country in. which the bank: is based. These are’ typically’ only ‘available: in ‘major
currencies eg US dollars‘or’sterling, for which active markets exist.

Euro bond market Refers to the-trading of bonds denominated in currencies other than-that of’ the. country
in which the bonds. are sold. An important, distinction, between the Euro. currency
-market and :the Euro bond :market:is that in, the former banks play an intermediary role
between borrowers, and ‘lenders, whereas ,in the Euro bond ‘market ‘the :role of’
intermediary is-removed.

Euro credit: market ‘This'is sometimes:called the medium-term.Euro currency market. It refers to'the market
‘for medium to long term loans. Generally; Euro credit. loans are offered by -a large
groupsor syndicate of banks, which allows the risk of default.to:be-spread among:many
‘banks.

4.3: Factors to,consider

The factors which.are relevant.to.choosing. between borrowing:on the-euromarkets or'through. the domestic system

areias' follows:

(a) Spreads between borrowing and lending are likely to be closer on the euromarket, because. domestic.
banking. systems are generally subject'to:tighter.regulation and more stringent reserve.requirements.

(b) Euromarket loans generally ‘require no security, while borrowing on domestic ‘markets is quite. likely to
involve.fixed or floating charges on assets as security:

(c) Availability of etiromarket funds is enhanced by the fact that euromarkets are attractive to inyestors: as
interest is paid gross without’the deduction of withholding’tax which-occurs:in many domestic markets, Also
euromarket securities can easily be sold-on secondary ‘markets.

(d) With. interest ‘normally: at floating rates on euromarkets;, draw-down dates can be. flexible,. although there:
may be early redemption penalties, Commitment. fees:which ensure the bank:must.make the’funds available if
required have to be‘paid.by'the borrower, even if the.full amount. of the:loan is‘not.drawn down.

(৩) 1815 often easier for a large: multinational, to raise ‘very large sums quickly on the euromarkets than in a.
domestic financial market.

(f) The cost of borrowing on curomarkets ‘is often slightly less than for thé.same currency in home markets.

(8) Tssue.costs are generally relatively low..

লো | A
Section overview
eu এ ০ What are:the ethical. requirements when. working in corporate finance?
170) | ‘Financial. Management

5.1. Introduction

When raising funds there.are-many. advisors to. whom a business.can turn. These include the following:

° Accountants — most medium, and large sized accountancy ‘firms have ‘their own corporate finance:
departments. An obvious lead into this form, of advice is ‘to be audited by a, firm: with, a, corporate’ finance
Specialisation,

° High street banks —'most of these-have corporate:finance'departments

০ Merchant:banks ~ thésé.specialise in hélping businesses to obtain finarice

০ _ Solicitors — these: provide advice on the legal aspects of fund-raising.

5:2 ICAB ethical guidance for accountants undertaking-corporate finance work,
'5:2.1, Fundamental principles’

The ICAB. provides ethical guidance that will ensure that recipients of corporate finance advice can,rely on, the:

objectivity and integrity of the: ddvice given to them by members. The guidance can be ‘found at icab:org.bd and

much. of this is dealt'with.in'the professional stage Audit‘and Assurarice-syllabus. .

The guidance is applicable to both members in practice and. members in business (6.8. accountants, working for

institutions providing funds for businesses).

Fundamental.Principle 1 — “Integrity”

A member should behave with integrity in all, professional and business relationships.

Integrity implies not;only honesty but fair dealing, truthfulness and being straightforward. A:member’siadvice and,

work:must be uncorrupted by self-interest and.not be influenced by:the interests: of other, parties. A.member, should.

not be-associated with information thatt‘is false-or misleading or supplied recklessly.

Fundamental Principle 2 — “Objectivity”

A member should strive for objectivity in/all_ professional and _business‘judgements:

Objectivity is the: state. of :mind ‘which has: regard to all considerations:relevant to the: task: in hand. but. no- other:

There should be no ‘bias, conflict:of interest:or undue influence of others.

Fundamental Principle 3 — ‘Professional competence and due-:care” ৪

When providing'professional services ‘professional.competence.and due care’ mean; w)

° Having appropriate professional. knowledge and. skill, a

৩ Having a continuing awareness and an understanding of relevant ‘technical, professional and business v
developments B

O Exercising:sound.and independent judgement R

O Acting diligently, that is:

- Carefully ৫

- Thoroughly

= On.a timely basis and.

— In-accordance with the-requitements. of an assignment: —<—

O Acting in accordance-with applicable technical and-professional standards

QO Distinguishing clearly between an expression of opinion and.an,assertion. of fact,

Fundamental Principle 4 — “Confidentiality”

The professional accountant should,-assume: that -all unpublished. information, about a prospective, current or

previous,client's or employer's.affairs, however gained, is confidential. Information,should then:

QO Be kept confidential (confidentiality should be;:actively preserved):

QO 016৮6 disclosed, even.inadvertently:such as in,a social environment

O Not be used to obtain personal advantage

Fundamental Principle 5 — “Professional behaviour”

Behaving ‘professionally means:

Sources of:finance. | 17,1)

O Complying with-relevant laws and regulations

O Avoiding aiy action that discredits ‘the profession, (the standard to be: applied :is that of a reasonable and.
informed third party with. knowledge of all relevant information)

QO Gonducting.oneself with
- Courtesy:and
— Consideration.

When marketing: themselves:and their work, professional accountants should:

O Be honest-and truthful:

O 4010 making exaggerated claims about:

— Whattthey can do.
— What:qualifications‘and experience.they possess

O Avoid making disparaging references to the work’ of others

Activity categories

Categories of activity covered under corporate finance are.as follows:

° General corporate finance advice

‘8 Acting as adviser.in relation.to takeovers:and mergers

° Underwriting and:marketing’or placing securities on behalf of a client; and

e 00118 as sponsor or nominated adviser under the Listing Rules:and the stock exchange‘rules. respectively.

5.2.2’ General principles applicable to,all professional accountants (in. practice and in: business)

Statutory and other regulatory: requirements

° Professional accountants must be aware of and ‘comply with current legislative and regulatory: measures 8110
professional guidance governing corporate finance assignments.

০ Professional accountants‘are.required to:comply with the Companies: Act on.Takeovers and.Mergers.

৩ At'the outset*professional accountants should.draw attention’ to the-legislative.and regulatory responsibilities
which will apply to the client’or.his.employer.

০ The professional accountant should also draw attention to his own responsibilities under. professional ethical
guidance.,

Interests of shareholders.and owners

Professional accountants should have regard to the ‘interests of all shareholders: and, owners unless they. are

specifically-acting: for a single or defined group thereof. This is particularly so when.advising-on a:proposal which

is stated to be:agreed by directors.and/or‘majority-shareholders or owners.

Preparation of documents

‘8 Any document. should be ‘prepared. in accordance with. ‘normal professional Standards 01 ‘integrity’ and
objectivity:and with a: proper. degree of care,

o = Tn-order to. differentiate the roles and responsibilities-of the'various. advisers, ‘professional accountants should
ensure:that these.roles:and responsibilities are:clearly-described:in all public.documents.and circulars and_that.
each.adviser is;named.

'5:2.3, General corporate finance advice applicable to professional accountants in:public practice:

Corporate finance advice

The nature of corporate finance activities 15:50 wide-ranging ‘that, all the threats to objectivity can arise when

professional accountants, in public practice provide corporate finance-advice to both assurance and ;fon-assurance

clients: the self-interest threat, the self:review threat, the advocacy threat; the familiarity or: trust threat-and the
intimidation threat.

When. advising a non-assurance client, there can be no objection to professional accountants. in public: practice.

accepting an engagement which. is designed. primarily with a view to advancing that client’s, case,. though the

professional accountant-in, public practice should. be aware that the self-interést thréat:could: arise.
722} | ‘Financial Management

Where 4 non-dsstirdnce client has received advice over'a period of time: on, 4 Seriés of related or unrelated
transactions it-is likely that, additionally, the ‘familiarity. or trust threats may. exist: But where.a professional
accountant in public practice advises:an:aSstirance client:which is Subject to atakeover bid.or where a‘ professional.
accountant in’public ‘practice acts as Sponsor or:ndminated adviser. to an. assurance client inyolved inthe issue of
securities, the self-interest-threat will become-more acute and the advocacy threat will-arise.
Some corporate finance activities such as marketing or underwriting of securities contain so-strong an, element of-
advocacy as to be ‘incompatible ‘with the objectivity ‘required. for the reporting roles of an auditor or reporting:
accountant, Even where the activities of an.auditor or:reporting accountant are restricted to ensuring their-clients’
compliance with the Listing Rules or'the Stock-Exchange Rules, it is-likely that-a self-reyiew threat could-arise,
It:may be-in the best interests of a company for corporate finance advice to be provided by its auditor, and there-is
nothing improper in the: professional accountant‘in public practice supporting:an assurance client in this way.
A professional accountant in public practicé’s objectivity may be: seriously threatened if their role involves
undertaking ‘the management responsibilities of an assurance: client. Accordingly, the ‘professional. accountant in
public practice ‘firm should ensure that the client. takes full responsibility for the ‘final decisions arising ‘from any
Such:negotiations.
Conflict of interest
Proféssional accountants in public practicé shall 86. aware of the danger Of: a conflict of interest: arising: All
reasonable. steps should be taken_'to ascertain whéther-a conflict. of nterest-éxists or is likély-to arise in;the future:
between .a professional accountant: in public practice and his clients, both -with regard to new clients, and to the
changing circumstances ০6 existing clients, and including. any implications, arising from, the possession of
confidential 11101108001.
Where. professional accountant;in public: practice-acts;or Continues ‘to act for two or more-clients having obtained
consent, safeguards will neéd to be:implernented-to, manage-any-conflict which arises. Thé safeguards:may include?
(a) The use of-different partners and teams for different.clients, each having:separate internal reporting: lines
(b) All necessary. steps. being taken. to prevent the leakage of: confidential information between different teams

and sections within the firm
(c) Regular review of the:situation by-a senior ‘partner or compliance officer-not: personally involved with. either

client; and
(0) Advising‘ the clients to seek.additional independent advice, where.it.is appropriate.
Any. decision on the‘part:of a.sole practitioner should take account of the:fact:that the safeguards at (a)'to (c):of the: ও
above paragraph will. not be: available. to ‘him. Similar consideration apply ‘to small. firms where the number -of tf)
partners is insufficient'to spread the. work:as indicated ‘above: a
Where’ a conflict of interest ‘is so: fundamental that it cannot’ be ‘managed effectively by the implementation of T
appropriate safeguards and is: likely seriously to prejudice: the ‘interests: of ‘a client, the engagement should not be: B
accepted or continued even if.all relevant clients ০0115611000 the engagement. R
Where’ a professional accountant in public practice is.required ‘for any reason to disengage from.an.existing. client,
the. professional accountant in public practice shall 00:50 as’ speedily as practicable having regard to the interest of
the.client. ৫
Documents for-client‘and public use
In.the case:of a document prepared solely for the:-client and its professional advisers, it should be 4 condition: of the —
engagement that the.document should :not be disclosed ‘to any third party without ’the firm’s prior written consent.
A professional aécountant in, public practice must. take responsibility for anything published under his name,
provided he consented to such publication, and the published document:should make clear the.client: for whom the
professional accountant:in-public practice is ‘acting.
Underwriting and:marketing. of shares
A professional accountant;in public practice who is an, auditor or:reporting accountant shall ,not.deal in, underwrite
or promote shares for their client. Involvement of this kind would.give rise‘to.an.advocacy threat, self-review threat:
and, self-interést threat such that: the professional accountant: in public practice’s. objectivity and independence:
would be‘threatened.

Sources of: finance: মে [7:31

Sponsors and nominated advisers
Professional accountants:in public practice's. attention is.drawn, to:
০ চ83118130০311-0190118.0070110% 19 Listing Rules when:a firm accepts the responsibilities ofa sponsor
Considerable’ care needs to be: taken if ‘a professional accountant. in public: practice is also to act ‘as ‘sponsor or
nominated ‘adviser to an assurance:client. A threat to the objectivity-of the auditor or reporting-accountant’can:arise
as the duties: of a sponsor or‘nominated adviser are different from those of. an auditor or reporting accountant and
are: owed, to ‘a different party., Although. it: is quite possible: that no conflict: will arise between. the two roles,
professional accountants.in public practice need to recognise: the possibility of conflicts. arising, particularly. ifthe
role of sponsor or. nominated ‘adviser is to-include any:advocacy of the directors” views or if the transaction is to
involve any issue: of. securities. ‘To comply with. the: requirements. above, where ‘there is an issue of securities
associated with ‘such ‘a transaction, a separate broker should be appointed. to take responsibility for any’
underwriting or marketing:of the company’s shares.
6 Capital market efficiency’
yl . .
z= Section overview
ood ij 0 How does the Stock-Exchange work?
o 8013 theefficient market hypothesis?
° What are the implications.of market efficiency?
6,1, Introduction
The Stock Exchange provides access nét-only to new funds but also act, as.a market for dealing-in “second-hand”
securities such a8 shares. This secondary function enables investors to liquidate their investmenttin, ordinary shares,
preference: shares and debentures where 'thése are quoted On ‘thé market. This makes investment more of an
attractive proposition‘for investors and keeps.down'the cost'to‘the.company of such:finance.
Investors, will be'keen to. get a fair price. for-their investment. Prices on themarket-are:fair if the -market-is efficient,
ie the:price-reflects all known information:.about the business and.its. prospécts,
This section.briefly looks at how the-Stock Exchange operates’ before’considering its efficiency.
6.2, Workings of the Stock Exchange
London.Stock Exchange has:
° Only members can
directly buy/sell shares:
on the: Exchange.
Members ০ Strict:rules, governing
members’ conduct
Members may act as market-makers or.dealérs Members rnay-act,as stockbrokers, .ié.as agents for
‘Specialising in particular:securities the.public who‘wish.to:buy/sell
০ = Will normally buy or sell-irrespective of ০ Client contacts stockbroker with buy’or-sell
whether they actually.have the securities order
e া010.8 trading stock-of the-securities in,which ০ Stockbroker, determines best ০0 ৮-017 351] price
they deal.. from,the quoted.prices of: various. dealers:
— Positive stock ‘= bull! position (positive. ০ Orders éffected througli SETS:and SEAQ
because dealers have bought securities Commission charged.to the client
they. are yet:to'sell).
1711 | ‘Financial Management

— Negative stock = bear position (negative
bécausé dealers have sold securities they
are‘yet'to' buy).
° Buying and selling:effected through.
computerised systems such as SETS and SEAQ
6.3, Efficient market hypothesis
Introduction
9 Efficient markets are assumed to exist by most of the: models and. theories in‘ this manual, eg dividend
valuation model, capital structure theory (M&M), dividend. policy irrelevance and-so-on
° [013 concerned. with the information-processing efficiency of markets — particularly with the processing
efficiency of the stock:market‘in terms of share prices
° -Anefficient market is one where’ no positive: net: present. value: opportunities exist:— basically. it is a market,
where shares: cannot be bought ‘on the.cheap" and sold on immediately at a profit: All share prices are ‘fair’
and investment returns are those’ expected for the :risks: undertaken. Information. is rapidly ‘and ‘accurately
incorporated into:share values
° The efficient markét hypothesis (EMH) is tested by considering three’forms of efficiency ~ weak, sémi-strong.
and strong the difference being in, terms of what information, is. reflected in. share -pricés. ‘The forms of
efficiency are cumulative, ie.if the market*is semi-strong, it-is also’ weak. If itis strong, it-is also semi-strong
(a) Weak form.efficiency
How. much information?
Share price reflects, information about past price movements. Past movements do. not help in. identifying
positive NPV trading strategies. Trading rules such as ‘buy after:three.days down':and ‘sell after-five days up"
should:not;work.
Share prices follow a:random walk. This does not:mean. that-prices. go up and down arbitrarily but rise with
good news and fall with bad news. The next. movement depends on the-next item of news — not past price
movements or_patterns: ‘The-next:item.could be. good-or bad:with a 50:50:chance, ie,random.
Tests
ডে
Tests indicate that.0.1% of.a share-price change-on a particular day can be-predicted. with knowledge of. the ঢা]
price: change ০7 the previous day. The remaining 99.9% is explained. by other information (sometimes FAY
referred to 33 ‘random walk:research’). P
Implications’ if the:market:is weak form efficient’ u
Future price movements cannot be: predicted from past: price movements., Chartists/ technical. analysts R
incorrectly believe they can.draw pictures and. identify patterns.
| xe Worked example: Weak form efficiency e
Here are two graphs:
Cu cu
Sources of: finance. | [1751

time time
One graph represents an experiment, You start with 00100. You.toss‘a coin. Heads wins you. CU20, tails:loses you.
CU15.. You toss the.coin-many times recording your change’ in wealth: over time.. Knowledge of.how the coin has
landed in. the past will. not help -you predict what will-happen. in the future, ie the next move in wealth. is up-or
down,.50:50 chance head or tails:
The other. graph is*what happens to your-wealth:if you invest CU100-in.the.FTSE all-share:index,
Which.is which?
Aré you sure?
The fact that.'the two diagrams are so similar indicates that you cannot identify patterns ie predict future
movements from past-rhovements..
(b) Sémi-strong efficiency’
How. much information?
Share prices incorporate all publicly-available information (published.accounts, press releases: about earnings,
dividends, new:products, government economic data, etc).
Once it has been published or appeared:in the papers nothing:can be done.about it as the share price will have
already reacted,to:it! Such:;news:is rapidly reflected in share prices.
Tests
Many of the tests:‘have:looked-at:individual share price.returns around news.release dates:relative to the rest:
of. the ;market returns. ‘For, ‘example, the effect: of dividend announcements which. were better/worse. than
expected could be examined. Evidence: suggests the stock: market immediately and rationally incorporates
such news in share prices (‘immediately' means within 5-10 minutes).
Implications‘if the market is weak-form and semi-strong‘form efficient
The market.cannot be beaten by examining ‘publicly available information — it will already be incorporated in.
share prices.
The market.can-only be beaten if.an:investor.has inside.information.
(c) Strong :form.efficiency
How much information?
Share prices réflect all information, published of. not. No investor could beat the-market by having-superior
information as it.does:not exist.
Tests.
Company managers: and other. insiders have information ‘they could trade ‘on before it. becomes public. ‘In
theory, publication would not affect the share. price as, the information is already ‘incorporated. In. reality
individuals, in the UK and US have been imprisoned. and/or fined. for, insider. dealing, ie ‘they have exploited
information which i§:not-in-thé:share price, negating the idea'that markets are:strong form efficient.
More importantly — can professional. investors, eg investment fund managers, consistently beat the market by
exploiting their (better) contacts ‘with companies (particularly their Ds) which average investors: do not,
11701 | ‘Financial Management

have? This has béen tested’by throwing 30 darts. at‘the FT share’listings and comparing the performance with
30 fund managers. Half the time thé darts win (!). This and many other tests indicate thatithere:is no evidence
that 'professional' investors consistently have access'to better inside information.
Implications ‘if the-mdrket.is efficient in all.thrée forms
Investors:cannot.consistently beat the market; but if-it,is not strong form efficient, then they can make money
from insider, dealing — and there is much evidencé. to suggést that: the stock market is not Strong: form
efficient.
6:4. Overall:
The stock’ exchanges of. all developed nations are regarded as at least semi-strong efficient forthe shares traded
actively on, those markets.
Lessons of market efficiency
Markets,have no-memory
‘Only issue shares when the.share price is.at.a‘high’ implies.a pattern to price-movements which can be used to. time.
the:issue of new. shares; ie weak:form-efficiency does not hold. In fact as has been seen, the past is:no guide:to the
future.. Managers can time, issues in relation to share:price by using inside information (ie:release:good news, share:
price-rises; issue new'shares) but-this.relates’to the future not past information.
Trust market prices
In.an efficient,market prices are:fair,— and cost of ‘equity, debt etc calculations’ will produce a“fair' result.
There are.no financial illusions
Firms cannot fool the market! The market is concerned with company cash flows: Thus, manipulating accounting
policies, eg depreciation to boost:reported earnings, will:not improve the share price (cash-flows’unchanged).
DIY alternative
In efficient markets investors will not pay companies :for what they can. do themselves, eg if one firm takes over
another there will not be an increase.in ‘share price merely because-of this transaction — the:shareholders' could have
bought:shares.in the other company and achieved the:same ends.
Shares are.close substitutes
It-should not be-necessary to make néw sharé-issues at:a substantial 01500011610 006 existing market price as:long.as .
the-return offered is:Gommensurate with the risk: undertaken’by the investor: A
Reading the entrails —P
Share prices are a better guide, to performance than published financial ‘statements. This brings into question the B
valué 01400 analysis. R
Value of investment.advice
As the market is. generally considered to be semi-strong:efficient, then: a
০ Technical analysis (Chartism) appears to be a’waste of time.
° Fundamental. analysis (eg examining accounts, press releases etc) makes the.market. semi-strong efficient by:
affecting share prices, but any more analysis after. the:information has, been.incorporated into ‘share prices.is .
worthless.
6.5’ Practical observations about beating the market
If-an investor. thinks he can beat:the.market by: The investor must be assuming that the ;market:
০ -Analysis-of past price: movement (Chartism) is’not-efficient at-all
© Gathering forecasts and-watching a.company's is.(at most) :weak.form efficient
actions (investment banks and brokers analysts)
e Insider dealing is‘(at most):semi-strong efficient
e Purely and orily.luck.— there:is no regular way to is:strong form efficient
Sources of: finance. | 11774

beat the market

‘6.6. Investor relations:
Semi-strong' efficiency depends upon both the quantity and quality of publicly-available information. Companies
that willingly make:information available:to. investors may be valued more. highly:than.those.that do-not: and;may,
consequently, have-a lower cost.of capitalbecause they are perceived to be less.risky (cost of. capital is covered in
Chapter 5).
Pressure from.investors.as well as government, accountancy bodies and. the Stock Exchange may ‘encourage’ those
less willing to improve the flow of information.

7 Behavioural finance
w= Section.overview
১১ © ‘Why are some decisions not:made.on.a rational basis?

° How do biases, emotions and different attitudes affect.investors?
Introduction
Behavioural finance is. an alternative view to 'the efficient market.hypothesis.. It attempts to explain the ‘market:
implications of the psychological ‘factors behind investor, decisions and, suggests that irrational investor behaviour
may significantly-affect share price.movements. These factors may explain why:share prices: appear sometimes to
overreact to past price changes..
As such, investors: are subject.to-a number, of behavioural tendencies that can lead to decisions’ that-are not:rational.
These behavioural. tendencies impact, investors’ decisions. which. questions the: validity of the efficient: markets
hypothesis:

7.1, Overconfidence
Investors: tend to ‘overestimate their, trading-abilities' and, gloss over the areas in which they“lack knowledge. This
can,lead to them,.making: bad investments. They are also likely to overestimate the accuracy of their:forecasts;, such.
as predicted ‘earnings. Investors may then be surprised by, for example. earnings announcements, because their
predictions. were-overambitious.
Overconfidence ‘can be linked to. self-attribution bias. This means that.investors will. attribute their, successes: to
their‘own: skills, but,their, failures will have been caused. by bad luck.rather than themselves.. Overconfidence leads
investors to think: they ‘can beat the:market:.
Representativeness ‘occurs when judgements are ‘based too heavily on a representative observation and don’t take.
into account, numerous other factors, ‘such as: statistical evidence. As an example when. there isa sharp decline in
the stock market therewill be articles. showing ‘thatthe fall in the index level is similar to that of the Wall Street
crash of 1929. Although, this statistic may be accurate, it-may mislead investors: to. believe, that there will. be -a
repeat;of the-Great Depression. of the 1930s. The fundamental economic differences between the two situations are.
overlooked in favour of'the.one similarity,
Representativeness can. also explain why some. investors think:that_past:performance can be used. to indicate future
performance; when.:in reality-the link is generally a poor one.

‘7.3, Narrow:framing
Investors: can suffer from “narrow framing’ if they, are unable to look: at the: broader picture.. For example. an
investor can focus on, the: ptice movement, Of a single share. instead. of’ looking at the whole portfolio. Similarly
inyestors may worry about short-term performance when, theit goal is ‘to fund long-term, retirement savings.
Looking at;the broader. picture, 10 should be seen, that:in the long run, .a well-diversified. portfolio should grow. in.
value, despite Some short=term, fluctuations.

[1781 | ‘Financial Management

এ:4. Miscalculation of:probabilities;
Research has :shown that ‘investors. attach too low a probability. to. likely outcomes and. too. high ‘a probability to
unlikely outcomes. This can. help to ‘explain ‘stock. market. bubbles ‘such.-as the ‘dotcom’ bubble as investors
overestimated the: potential of the:internet start-ups and their ability to dominate:their market segments.
7.5: ‘Ambiguity:aversion:
Investors:are afraid of:areas that they do not.have.much information:on and.instead they. prefer the:familiar, which.
they: believe they know well. This can, help to explain why investors ‘avoid overseas shares. when, ‘rationally,
international diversification.brings benefits to the investor..
7.6 Positive feedback:and‘extrapolative expectations:
Positive: feedback: investors buy shares after their prices have ,risen. and sell them after, prices: fall. They. build
extrapolative expectations: about: the share prices, expecting prices to continue. rising. (or falling). Some.informed
traders use. this behavioural tendency to their advantage. by joining in and’ pushing ‘rising ‘prices: higher and then.
selling. at: a profit before the price falls. This creates instability in the market and ‘means the share. price. has
diverged: from: its. realistic value. This‘behaviour, can create stock.market, bubbles.
7.7 Cognitive dissonance:
If an. investor has a long-held belief; they will. continue to. hold :it even if-evidence completely: contradicts this
belief. This can lead to investors holding shares ‘that. they believe will increase: ‘in value when the evidence
overwhelmingly suggests otherwise:
This tendency contributes towards an effect known. as ‘post-earnings. announcement ‘drift? which shows that. the.
reaction. to:unexpectedly good or bad earnings figures is.slower. than-suggested bythe efficient markets: hypothesis.
7.8 ‘Availability: bias
Individuals may pay. particular-attention to one fact:or event because it is freshest:or most, prominent in their mind.
The bigger picture is ignored, although it is likely to be based on sound ‘probabilities rather than the emotion
attached to the one:fact-or event. For example, if some high-profile;companies in the-nuclear‘energy sector. produce
some poor’results, then investors might abandon the-entire sector and:ignore the potential that.there.are some good iC}
companies:available-at low prices. 1
A
Be চর P
7.9: Conservatism) 7
Investors;tend.to be-naturally conservative-and resistant to changing:an opinion. As a result,if profits turn, out to be 8
higher than expected, they will 01106116800 and_not adjust: subsequent; profits expectations. This means ‘that: one
profits.announcement:-surprise:1s followed by. another.
7:10: Overall
Despite ‘these behavioural tendenciés, investors tend. to be viewed as flawed 80018] thifkers rather than, as
completely irrational. These -inivestors attempt to be rational, but have limitations in their, meniory, ¢motion, and .
cognitive function; which lead them:to:tepeat mistakes.
Sources of:finance. [mm

|| Whendodmasdeo
চিল 0 টের
Equity, 4 1051 : HW ie Eurocurrency markets
[11017957101 ° ও গে ন্1037150000] miEurotcurrencyloans
retam arRankihighenthan es Euro.credity
o equity, ryGonvertibles’ Cy Eurolbonds}
earnings can . J| ©

FsRightslissues Seyi টি a
CaNew,issues .

lEffectiof rights issue) | ocho j INoysecurity)

Exarights/price:= FaRepresentationsfand মা

চা ron NPV, warranties’ পচ —,
180) | ‘Financial Management

Answer the following questions.
1] Sutton.Ltd has announced a 1 for 3 rights issue at a subscription ‘price of CU2. ‘The.current cum-rights price
of the shares"is CU3:04.
What.is the theoretical value (tothe nearest: penny) 0012 right’per existing share?
2 Acornpany, whose shares currently sell at CU75 each, plans to make:a rights.issue of one share at CU60-for
every four existing shares..
What.is' the theoretical ex-rights price of:the shares ‘after'the issue?
3 Anall-equity financed.company has‘incissue 50:.million shares‘with a.nominal value of CU0.50'per share and.
a market -value-of CU1.05 per:share. The company-is contemplating raising CU10, million; via.a rights issue
with.a subscription price of: CU0.80'per share in order to:finance-a project with.a net‘present value of CU2.5
million,
Assuming ’that the market is semi-strong efficient, what will besthe. néw market‘price-of a share:following the:
rights issue?
4 MOORGATE:COMPANY
The Moorgate Company: has issued 100,000 CUI ‘equity shares which, are at present: selling for
CU3 per share. The.company has'plans:tozissue rights:to:purchase-one new equity share at a price:of CU2 per
share for every four.shares.,
Requirements
(a) Calculate-the.theoretical.ex-rights price:of Moorgate's equity shares. (5 marks)
(b) Calculate the theoretical: value-of a Moorgate.right before:the:shares sell,ex-rights. (5 marks)
(c) The chairman of the compatiy receives ৪ telephone call from.an angry shareholder who owns 1,000
shares, The shareholder argues. that.he will suffer ‘a loss in-his personal wealth due to this: rights:issue,
because.the.new shares are being offered 308 price lower than.the:current market value.
iC)
The.chairman assures him that his wealth will :not:be reduced, because of the.rights issue;-as long asthe Fa)
shareholder. takes appropriate action. A
(i) Is the:chairman cortéct? দু
(ii) What-should the shareholder’do? B
Prepare a.‘statement showing the. effect of the rights::issue on this particular shareholder's: wealth, R
assuming:
(i) He:sélls.all the rights: ৫
(1). -He-exercises half the rights-and sells the other.half
ii) He-does-nothing at all. (10 marks)
(d) Are there any-real circumstances which might:lend-support'to:the shareholder's claim? Explain.(5 marks)
(25 marks)
5 EASTERWAYS ‘LTD
Easterways Ltd:is a listed company involved in.the tourist trade. The-company wishes to make an. offer-for 4.
smaller -rival ‘business, Tinytouts Ltd. Since it is believed ‘that the: Tinytours Ltd shareholders would only
accept cash, a ‘telatively large amount of cash will ‘have to be raised.
A Share issue seems a realistic possibility for achieving. this. The directors. are undecided between making,a
public issue or-a-rights issue:of shares, They are also-unsure about the:price:at which shares should be:issued.
One of the. directors has’ suggested. that a. convertible loan stock: issue might be worth considering. The
directors are adamant that a.conventional loan is out of the: question.
Sources of: finance. | 181

Requirement.
Prepare’a report for thedirectors explaining the:major factors that relate to their decision, including the points
about which the directors‘are uncertain. (11 marks)
6 STOCK./MARKET.EFFICIENCY
The following. statement contains’several errors: with reference.to the three.levels.of market efficiency.
‘According to ‘the efficient markét hypothesis all share: prices are correct at all times. This, is achieved. by
prices moving randomly when: new :information is publicly announced; New information, from published
accounts is the:only determinant:of the random:movements in:share price:
Fundamental.and technical analysis of the stock:market-serves no.function.in making the market efficient and
cannot predict future share’ prices. Corporate financial managers are: also unable to predict: future. share
prices.’
Requirement.
Explain the errors in the-above-statement. (10 marks)
7 MARKET STATEMENTS
The statements shown below have: been made in respect’ of the Dhaka Stock Exchange: or of particular
securities traded in that:market.
Requirements
Critically comment. on each. of the ‘following ‘three statements, clearly explaining any technical terms
contained within'them or used by‘you.
(a) ‘In view of the fact that.the market is efficient in the:semi-strong’form, financial information released by
companies is of.no value to investors, because the information.is already included in-share prices before
‘itis released’. (4 marks)
(b) ‘If an-investor holds shares-in about.20:different companies all of the risk is eliminated and the portfolio.
will,give a.return equal to;the risk-free-rate*.. (5 marks)
(c) ‘A graph of the daily price.of a share-looks' similar to that which. would be obtained by. plotting a.series
of. cumulative rdndom numbers. This shows: clearly: that share prices move randomly ‘at: the whim. of
investors, ‘indicating that-the:market‘is not price efficient’, (3 marks)
(12 marks)
Now go ‘back 'to the Learning Objectives in the ‘Introduction. If you aré satisfied you, have: achieved. these
Objectives, please'tick them off.
[1521 | ‘Financial Management

ATSwers to linicmneiive qmesiions
‘Answer, to Interactive question’
cu.
(a) Value.of the company'now is: 100,000 x CU2 200,000
Increase in, value 0116-00-25 9]1815$ being sold ‘50,000.
Impact. of new'project:being'taken on= NPV 25,000.
‘Value:of company after-issue and project 275,000
(৮) ‘Ex-rights pice = MV of:shares *’pre-rightsissue + rights proc S+ projec |
' number of sharesex-rights
(100,000xCU2)+(50,000xCU1)+CU25,000
_ 100,000+50,000
= CUI.83'/,
Value: of: the right-=CU1.83'/, - CU1.00 = CU0:83',
* ‘Tf the market price-of the-existing shares had been given post the announcement of the project; then the
project NPV of @U25,000 would already be included in the MV of the old shares (see market
efficiency).
(০) (0) Takes up rights.
Stép 1: Wealth prior to rights issue 1,000: CU2 2১000.
Step:2: Wealth 20050118109 issue 1,500: CU1.831/3 _ 25750
Less, Rights cost 500°x.CU1 (500)
“. €U250 better off
(01) Sells rights
Step 1; Wealth prior to rights issue 1,000:% CU2 2,000.
Step:2: Wealth post rights issue
‘Shares 1,000: CU1.831/3 1,8331/3 iC}
‘Sale of rights 500;x CU0.831/3 4162/3 [1
2,250 ৷
“. 0250.820(61 off (P
(iii) Does.nothing v
Step 1: ‘Wealth prior. to rights-issue ‘1,000:x CU2 2,000: হর
31922: Wealth 00901181105 issue 1,000. CU1.831/3 1,8331/3 R
. Loss of CU1662/3.
‘Answer, to Interactive question 2
Number:.of shares:issued = 100,000.
Amount:raised = 100,000:x 50p = CU50,000
(100,000xCU2)+(100,000X CU0.50)+CU25,000
a . 100,000+100,000
Ex-rights price = ;
= CU1,375
Value of the right =CU1,375— CU0.5.= 87.5p
(3) Take-up tights |
‘CU
Wealth prior to.rights issue. 1,000 x CU2 2,000
Wealth post'rights issue 2,000 x:CU1,375 _ 2,750
Less: Rights.cost 1,000, x.50p" (500)
2,250
Sources of: finance. | 183)

:. 00250 better off.
(b) Sélls tights
CU
Wealth prior to rights issue 1,000 x CU2. 2,000
Wealth 00911181108 issue
Shares 1,000 x CU1.375 1,375
Sale:of rights 1,000 x CU0:875 875
2,250
“. €U250.better off
Thus: the. terms and. price do ‘not affect: shareholders who take. up or: sell their ‘rights — they gain the. same.
amount.
‘Answer: to Interactive question 3
Stage) (Characteristics Rossiblersourcestoffunds
Start-up Very small scale. Savings or second. mortgage on home. Borrow from. family:and
Make at home. friends (no security or past:record,.so bank.reluctant'to_lend).
Deliver by car to:local.
customers (offices, trading
estates etc).
Growth.to Need-small premises and-a Borrowing from bank: to. purchase premises (secured. by
€U100,000 van. premises and personal guarantees) ‘or lease premises. Possibly
revenue pa grant, but unlikely as not innovating, employing people ‘in an
area of high unemployment (eg: former coalfield) or
manufacturing:.
(Organic) Need:new larger.premises, Borrowings from bank. secured by premises or lease.
growth .to with refrigeration and নাউ ৯৭ Viae %
CU500,000 refrigerated vans. Become, a limited company 040) and bring in. new
. shareholders/money:
revenue pa
Possibly grant, as'it' may be possible‘to site the:new premises in
an area offering grants to create employment.
Growth to.CU2 — Established a (Secured), bank borrowings remain. Acquisition 78 higher risk;
million‘revenue ‘brand/name/reputation and, main possibilities?
pa by. wants to.expand. regionally:
acquisition © ‘Tssue:more shares.
e Venture: capital .or business: angels (although.they tend to
prefer bigger deals. than,this).
০ Loans: (at higher ‘interest. than. bank; ‘acknowledging the
higher risk.and lack:of security).
Growth,to.CU5 =Want'to use Main sources likely'to.be:
million:revenue. brand/name/reputation more . . ;
pa widely:—sell. ready-made ০ Continuing bank borrowings (secured).
sandwiches to local e _ Venture‘capital or’business angels.
independent-retail-outlets and . . রা
local branches:of national (Now 803 viable size for'this)
retail chains (using their 2. Loans/debentures.
‘brand) on credit. ee
© Invoice discounting (now they have receivables and they
are reputable).
Growth to, Expand to national:scale, by | Convert:to:public limited.and:float on Stock’Exchange..
CUS50 million combination of organic
revenue pa etowth and acquisition.
124 | ‘Financial Management

Answers 03 SdiHiest
3xCU3.044xCU2
4.
A New MV ex-div.per-share = =.
= CU2.78
Valuesof a right to buy a share worth CU2.78 for CU2.00 = CU0:78
CU0.78
Value:per existing share =
='CU0.26

ভে
2 = CU72.00
50mxCU1.05+CU1]0mxCU2:5m
50m+12:5m: ,
3. Newshare'price =
= CU1.04
4 MOORGATE:COMPANY
(a) Ex-rights price
CU
4 existing shares x CU3.00 12.00
1 rights share x CU2,00 2.00
14.00
The theoretical, value-of:Moorgate's shares:ex-rights.is
০১:14:00,
3S =CU2:80 ৪
(৮) Value‘of right A
Value‘of aright = CU(2:80.— 2.00) P
=,.CU 0.80 T
One right enables:a holder to buy a share at CU2.00: which will eventually sell for CU2.80. The value 01 8
the right to buy. one share is; therefore, 00:80. Four. existing shares are.needed to buy‘one additional, R
‘share. Therefore, the:theoretical value:of the rights’ attached toveach-existing share’is CU0-20.
(c) Chairman's views' 7
The:chairman.is correct. The: shareholder should either exercise the rights or sell them (subject (০ (d)
below).
0) If he sells all rights a
CU
Wealth before:rights issue:
Value of:shares .1,000:x -CU3.00 3;000
Wealth after rights issue
Value of:shares 1;000°:x CU2.80 2,800.
Plus cash from sale:of rights 1,000 x CU0:20 200
3,000
Sources of: finance. | 185}

(01) 1018 exercises one half of his rights.and sells the other half
CU
Wealth before rights issue:
Value of.shares ‘1,000'x’CU3.00 3,000
Wealth after rights:issue
Value 01010 shares 1,000 x 02:80. 2,800
Value of:new shares:(500 +4) x CU2.80 350.
Cash from sale of rights 500:x:CU0.20 100,
3,250
Less Cost of purchasing new shares 125 x CU2 (250)
3,000
(iii) If he does ‘nothing.
CU
Wealth before rights: issue
Value of'shares .1,000°x CU3.00 3,000
Wealth after righits issué
Value of,shares 1,000:x.CU2.80 (2,800)
Reduction in-wealth 200
(0৫), -Shareholder. wealth
It is possible that: the shareholder, even though exercising the rights or selling them, will suffer a
reduétion.in wealth.
The.above-analysis:is based. on the assumption thatthe funds to be raised by the’new issue of shares will
be.invested.in the. business to earn ‘a rate of return comparable: to the’ return 011 the existing:funds. The
‘stock. market;.in valuing the shares-of Moorgate after the rights issue, has to:make some’ assumption as
to. how profitably the new funds are: to be used. For:example, if the new funds: were squandered, the
overall. return on:equity funds‘would fall and the price would drop: below the CU2.80 calculated above.
Alternatively, if the proceeds. are to be used to finance a. highly profitable investment and the stock
market-does.not initially appreciate this point, then the market.in,arriving at.a price of CU2.80 ex-rights
will .be-undervaluing the share. When. the true earning potential of the company were realised, the:share
price-would risé., However, by then, it-mighit be too late for the shareholder-reférred ;to:in-the question.
If the shareholder. exercises. the: rights: in the circumstances just described he ‘will. not lose. When. the
‘shares .rise ‘in price: he will. benefit: However, if at the ‘time of the rights issue he decides to. sell, the
‘shares, .he will lose. The. value of. the rght.in the: circumstances described is based on. the assumption
that the new‘funds will earn ‘as much as the-old. Later‘the person who exercises the rights will benefit,
when the shares rise‘in ‘price above that’expected ‘at the'time’of issue.
Tutorial.note: No mention is made of the use to which the funds will. be ‘put: It can only’be:assumed therefore. that
they will earn the-same return as the firm's. existing operations:and hence each.new share; will increase the’ value of
the:firm.by CU2.00. This is.a good demonstration of the old examination adage — ‘if in doubt assume the simplest’!
The use to which.the funds will be put should be'discussed:in part (c).
5. EASTERWAYS:LTD
REPORT
To The Board of Easterways Ltd
‘From Mark Green, Financial consultant
Date 12 September:20X2
Subject Financing the Tinytours Ltd takeover
Terms of reference
To advisé the board on various approaches to raising equity'finance for'the takeover of Tinytours.Ltd.
For' the purposes. of this report it is assumed ‘that neither retained earnings nora conventional ‘loan is a.
possible meains of raising the nécessary cash.,
A public-issue of equity:
This amounts to. the company selling shares, normally through an. intermediary, to the general -investing
public. This is.a relatively, rare event except;when_ a:newly-listed:businessis seeking-a wider ownership for its
shares. Once. listed, companies tend not to-use public issues. This-is for several reasons.
11 86) | ‘Financial Management

° Public issues-are expensive. The: issue costs (legal, administrative etc) can be very costly; 10% or more:
of the. value of the funds: raised, ‘though there are economies of scale so that large issues are
proportionately cheaper,
e Setting: the’ issue. price is difficult and important.. Even. if the: price is set .at what ‘is believed to bea
realistic level, there is'still:the possibility that there will be insufficient demand to:ensure the sale.of all
the’ shares. This is particularly the.case when ‘markets: are volatile.’ When not all the-shares ‘are sold, the
company is in danger of falling 'short of its target‘level-of funds. Underwriting is-an-option to-ensure’that
all-shares are’ sold. which will enable the:firm. to‘reach.its'target. The-:main’ problem-with’underwriting ‘is
that it is very expensive and the fees are payable even if the underwriters do: not have. (0. buy any
outstanding shares.,
e Control of the:company could pass. fromthe existing shareholders
Since existing shareholders have the right to be offered shares. first, ‘those shareholders. can, in.effect, block a
public issue in favour‘of.a nghts.issue.
Rights issues
A rights issue is one to the existing shareholders where each ‘shareholder is given the ‘right’ to take-up a
number,of new:shares which.represents a proportion of the existing holding. Shareholders who:do: not wish to
takeup their rights can usually sell the:right to another investor who. will be able to take‘up the rights: instead.
For an.established listed:company, rights-issues.are. much more: popular, for, the following:reasons:
° Rights‘issues' are relatively.cheap'to:make, perhaps.less than half. as expensive.as a public:issue
° The issue price is:relatively-unimportant. Since. all existing shareholders benefit from ‘the cheap price in
proportion to: their shareholding, there -is no. disproportionate gain. The company needs, to. make the
rights price: significantly cheaper. than the market, price. This: puts: pressure on shareholders ‘to take up
the. shares-or. to sell them-to an investor who will. Thus rights issue tend 11000 fail, ie the:shares tend to
be issued and the.required cash raised
e Control tends: to:stay with the existing shareholders
It seems as :if a rights issue would provide a cheaper and more: practical: way~for. the company to ‘raise the
funds‘ for:the Tinytours takeover than would a.public issue.
Convertible loan stock issue
Conivertiblés ate a mixture of loan and equity financing. They aré issued. as loan stocks with ‘the right’ to ও
convert:them: into equity shares:of the saijie:company at some: pre-determined rate and date. 9
From the. investors’ point of view they are -rélatively:jsafe, in that there 19 a-close-to guaranteed ‘interest: A
payment; periodically and.a right to convert to equity if itis beneficial to do.so: 7
From the. company's-viewpoint they-are. attractive: because [৪
০ They are cheap to issue;,loan stock‘is ‘generally cheap to’ issue, so it’becomes, ‘if all. goes well, a.cheap R
way. of issuing equity
e - Loan‘financevis relatively cheap-to service because Of thé. tax-deductibility of interest charges a
e° ‘They are self-liquidating; provided the holders convert, the loan liquidates itself through.an equity issue,
which saves’the company the: problem of:raising ‘the:cash to'replace the:expiring loan stock:
Disadvantages of. any type of loan financing include .
e —_ The likély néed;to provide. security for'the loan
© ‘The possibility that lenders will impose‘covenants, for example restricting the level of dividends and/or
insisting:on-a minimum liquidity ratio’
Raising finance, unless it is: from.a mixture of debt’ and equity, will affect the level of gearing, with probable
implications for the risk/return profile:and the cost.of capital.
6 STOCK:MARKET.EFFICIENCY
The efficient market.hypothesis is often considered in terms of:thtee.levels Of:market.efficiency..
(a) Weak.form efficiency
(b) Semi-strong form efficiency
(©) Strong form efficiency
Sources of: finance. | 187)

The accuracy of the statement:in the question depends in part‘upon which form of inarket efficiency is being

considered. The ‘first Sentence stateés.that all:share priceés.are correct at all times. If ‘correct’ means that-prices

reflect true ‘values (the’true value being an.equilibrium price which incorporates all ‘relevant information: that
exists at @ particular“point.in time), then strong ‘form. efficiency does. suggest that prices are ‘always correct.

Weak and semi-strong prices aré riot likely’to be correct as ‘they do :not. fully: consider all information (eg

‘semi-strong efficiency does not:inclide-insidesinformation).

It:might be-argued that even strong: form.efficiency‘does not lead to correct:prices at.all times as, although an

efficient market ‘will:react.quickly to new relevant information, the:reaction is not:instant. and there will. be a.

short ‘period.of time’ when ‘prices:are not correct:

The second sentence 171,016, statémentisuggests that-pricés move:randomly. when new information is publicly

announced. Share prices do not move randomly when new information is announced. Prices may follow a,

random walk in. that successive price changes are independent of each other, However, prices: will move to

reflect accurately any new relevant information’that:is announced, moving up-when.fayourable information-is

‘announced, and down with unfavourable information.

If Strong:form efficiency exists, prices might-not move at all, when new information:is publicly announced, as

the market: will already be aware of the information prior’ to public: announcement and. will have: already

reacted to the information.

Information from published. accounts is: only one possible: determinant of share price itiovement. Others

include the announcenient of investment plans, dividend announcements, government changes -in monetary.

and ‘fiscal: policiés,,inflation, levels, exchange-rates and many more.

Fundamental and technical analysts play an important role: in producing market éfficiency. An. efficient.

market. requires competition among a ‘large ‘number of analysts to achieve ‘correct’ share :prices, and thé

information ‘disseminated by analysts. (through, their companies) helps: to fulfil one: of the: requirements of
market.efficiency;-ie that information,is widely.and cheaply available.

An efficient:rnarket-implies that there,is no way for investors or analysts:to achieve consistently superior rates

of return. This does not say that analysts cannot accurately predict future share prices. ‘By: pure chance some

analysts will do so. However, the implication is that analysts will not’be.able to 00:50 consistently.

The same.argument.may be:used for corporate financial managers. If;-however, the:market:is only sernistrong

efficient, then it is possible that financial managers, having inside: information, would bé able to produce.a

superior estimate. of'the future share price of their own companies, and.that, if analysts have-access,to inside
information, they could earn superior returns.

Tutorial note: Stock market efficiency ‘is ‘a very broad concept and in questions ‘it:is ‘sensible to ‘pin down!

‘the Ievels of “efficiency you. are: discussing. After ‘that it 'is ‘merely a matter of challenging’ each phrase at a

‘time.

7 MARKET STATEMENTS

(a) A stock.market-is described as efficient when the price of a particular. security is adjusted instantly by
the market to take account .of new information. There are three grades of efficiency currently used,
although a market:could be between them. The weak form. of the-efficient: market :hypothesis states that
the: only information-which is fully reflectéd inthe sharé-price is the trends -which can be deduced from
previous. share: prices; the, semi-strong:form states that the market price. of ‘a security. already reflects all
public information,about' the company; the strong-form includes private information:as well.

It is, generally held that Dhaka: Stock. Exchange. is approximately semi-strong, 16 the market-price of, 4
security-will reflect all public information which is:rélevant. As:new information becomes available:that
price. will change. Financial information, as one example, -will give the market more information, to
judge. whether the. security is under-or overpriced, resulting in trading which will adjust its price. Thus
information is‘useful to investors as it's likely to-afféct the market price when, it.bécomes: public.,

The second part: of the quote in the question implies strong form efficiency and. is contrary to semi-.
strong efficiency. where information is. of value to investors — it is impounded in. share prices when.
released.

(b) It is: possible for an investor to ‘pick carefully about 20 investments in different: sections :of ‘the stock,
market: and ‘by. doing so maintain a well-diversified, portfolio. 1073 important however, ‘that: the
investments are:carefully chosen. from different-sectors,-rather than simply. 20 different-shares.

A well-diversified portfolio means a collection of shares which, together, roughly resemble, in. their:
returns and risks, the whole stock market. ‘Risk means the possible fluctuations in return on an
11881 | ‘Financial Management

investment around the average: By putting together a portfolio, of collection of investments, with
feturns. which, do not move-in the same: way, it is: possible to reduce the risk below that 0 8 single
investment..
Ina well-diversified portfolio the risk in the portfolio is reduced. The rémaining risk is called the
‘market’ or Systematic¢ risk, It is therefore hot true to say all the: tisk’ is eliminatéd ds only’ the
unsystematic:tisk*(i¢ that part ofthe fluctiations in possible returns on a security not due to changes in
the system) will be eliminated in.the*portfolio.
As there+is still some-risk, it‘is also-incortect.to say that the portfolio will give a.teturn equal 'to‘the risk-
free-fate (the return expected from an investment with no risk, such as short-term government gilts); the:
return, will 66 substantially higher than the: risk-free raté to compensate for the risk of investing.in the:
Stock market.
(©) The concept of price.efficiency and the-efficient:market‘hypothesis have been explained in (a). It'would
be true to-say that in general the: daily price movements of 4 sharé look random:in-relation to each other
and that fo relationship can be deduced. This does fot, however, mean. that share-prices are random in,
relation: to ‘the information released to ‘the market, and a clear connection, can be deduced between, the
information released and ‘the direction afd size of the.change in the-share price.
If the:stock imiarket‘is sémi-strong efficiént, the-share pricé movements’ will still appear random, but. will
react.in a predictable :manner'to any ‘new information becoming public. Information teledsed is fandom,
§0 movements which feflect'that information, will-appear to be random.
An inyestor holding information which is not yet public, or guéssing. at it, would therefore be ablé to
predict;a future share price:movement when*'that;information becomes public.
A
—P
Pe
Sources of: finance. | 1D

SS i re ee ও সদ
এক টেকে টু হর area re ios কস DN চি Te ERS Aya S ২ ৮ Be
BS cee win NS cg as, Ped | Telit inn oo Lake eg স্্ক্ু সা চল নর নাস ৮ 35 Aes Cy ২৮২
ae ae a terest না বা igs Res Fer wee nena | ie, পেশ oo
Red ally. 3১441 pase [1] ia met Prod le a) দস স্মস্্ সস AAD SLs Wet tncce
ibe saea ia pales iy eae eee
= ee ZOE
See a
CHAPTER 5
Cost of capital
Introduction.
Examination.context.
Topic List
1 Cost.of equity
2 Costof'debt
3. Combined cost’of.capital or weighted average cost:of capital
Summary and Self-test
Answers to.Interactive questions
Answers to:Self-test:
[ms

Introduction
© To calculate the:cost.of equity capital using the dividend valuation model [||
° To.estimate growth, rates based_on_historic dividends and. on:retention rates যা
© 0. ০8010806 016-00900600103-0511186 the CAPM 1
০ To.estimate the-costs.of preference and debt capital [jj
০ ‘To adjust'the cost of debt to reflect the effects-of taxation and.redemption LJ
‘@ To'combine various costs of. capital intoa weighted. average, having regard.to what the-appropriate ml
weightings: are
‘© ~—- To detérmine when it'is correct'to use-a weighted. average cost-of capital [|
The syllabus:references that'relate to this-chapter are: 1k, 3c.
Syllabus links:
Cost ‘of. capital. extends the basic: ideas of return. on. capital employed’ introduced in Business and ‘Finance: 80
Knowledge level. This topic combines. with basic investment appraisal. from. Management Information to allow
both. financing andinvestment decisions to be explored'simultaneously.
There is:further‘technical.development ofthe topic at.advanced:level-in-Business Change.
Finally, the case study: may ‘require ‘analysis which utilises a cost: of. capital in determining ‘answers’ to. business
issues..
Examination‘context
In the examination, you may ‘be required to’ calculate a.cost of capital — be it equity, preference shares, debt or’an
overall weighted average. The basis of the calculation may form a discussion, either. on its own-or combined with
an exploration of business or-financial risk.
1:96) | ‘Financial Management

1. 0০306180013:
লেট Section.overview
oH e Underlying concept’is that risk‘and return are-linked.
০ Cost-of equity (k,) ০63 company 13 same as-the:returns required. by‘an.investor.
e The Dividend Valuation’Model (DV.M) assumes share. price:equals the:present.value of future dividends.
e Growth-can be estimated using historic growth rates or retention rates.
e The DVM has weaknesses due to both the assumptions:made.and the data‘used.
© The CAPM is an alternative method of-estimating k,.
1.1, Categories of long-term finance
These have already been summarised,as:
9 .Equity shares.
০ Preference shares
° Debt
These ‘will. be examined.in turn so as‘ to establish both.a rationale and.a procedure: for calculating the.cost of.each
source-of finance, Subsequently ‘an‘approach to establishing a combined (weighted average): cost of. capital will be.
‘examined.
1:2. Calculating returns:
The cost: of each: source of long-term,finance:can be equated; with the return. which the ‘providers:of finance expect:
on their investment. The return can be expressed as. an interest.rate:and this will be 0960 39 the overall measure of
cost, ie the: cost of money’is. the percentage return.a firm needs to pay its investors. Essentially, the calculation .is
that of an internal rate of.return: (IRR) where:
Market ‘value.of investment = Returns:on. investment discounted at:investors' required rate.of return
1.3, Determinants.of the cost of finance?
The two:major‘determinants.of-a company’s cost! of finance are:
° The risk-free rate of return or a rate of return that-reflects’the time value of money.
© The reward for the risk taken by investors in advancing ‘funds to the firm. For example, equity holders take
more:risks than debt.holders, and therefore expect:higher rates of return.
1:4) The dividend valuation model!
“1:4:1, ‘What gives ‘a'share value?
The primary financial. objective is.assumed ‘to'be'to maximise the wealth of-equity shareholders. ৪
If we view "০3101 85 thé value of the shares, it is necessary to have a theory as to what determines the-value-of an, Fa)
ordinary share. A
The ‘benefit to shareholders: from, owning a share takes ‘the form of future: dividends and capital gain. It is the Re
present value:of these benefits that creates the price:today- i
Thus: R
Price:of shares:now 090) = Present value of’ future:dividends + present: value:of share:price.on eventual sale.
‘1.4.2, What'determines the share price on'eventual sale?. 8
For-an individual,to make a capital gain, he must find another investor prepared to buy at the higher price. Why
should that other investor’be prepared to. do so? Obviously only in the. expectation of enhanced. dividends and.a :
possible capital gain for, himself.
Cost of capital. | 11071

However, the second capital, gain, in, tim depends on finding ‘yet another investor -preparéd to buy at the higher
ptice-— and. so on.. Ultimately it can. be séen, that capital gains and losses aré merely ‘transfers of existing wealth
between members of the'market, The only addition to the total wealth. of the:market-as ও whole;.and therefore, the
only determinant of current ‘value, are the dividends paid by’ the company, ‘including: any terminal dividend on.
liquidation,

Thus the:current share price is’totally deterniined by the anticipated dividends, discounted at the investor's:required

raté of return (the costiof equity).

Py = Present-valué:of future dividends.

15° The pattern of future dividends

In order to arrive ‘at a price, the future dividends. need. to be estimated. The most.convenient assumptions are that

dividends either remain constant, or grow at-some:fixed. annual rate, g. It.can be shown that'the market. value

of equity :(share price x:number of shares) can. be expressed in relatively straightforward terms. Working from the
method of: valuing a perpetuity;

Dividends'remain. constant:

D
Py= Bo ork, = —2-
K, FA
Dividends grow at constant rate,. 82
Py Do(1+9) ork. 00178) +8 (referred to as: the Gordon Growth model in the
k,-9 P, exam.formulae.sheet)
Where Py = ex-dividend (see section 1.6) market value of equity
Dg = dividend paid at time. 0
k, «= equity‘investors' required rate of return

In this model it.is ‘assumed that dividends. are paid at annual intervals. Note: that one. result.of this model is that if

dividends grow.at a,rate."g’ per annum then so-does the share price.

There are-obvious flawsin such simple models of anticipated dividend behayiour, In particular, note the. following

points:

° g must be less than ‘kj. If g.equals ke the ‘share price, becomes infinitely high, a ‘nonsense ‘result. However,
note that a.growth.rate this high:to‘perpetuity is:impossible.

° In practice companies are likely to experience periods of ‘varying growth rates. More: sophisticated models
havé been, developed to cope-with such forecasts, but they do sot need to be:considered computationally, for
the putposé:of the éxam.

The pattern of: future dividends is-usually referred to as the. dividend stream.

: S| Interactive question*1: Dividend valuation model (Gordon‘growth model) রা রা
লু ~ ” - (Difficulty, level:. Intermediate]

A company's ‘shares are. quoted ‘at CU2.50 ex-div. ‘The dividend just ‘paid was 500. No growth ‘in dividends ‘is

expected and.dividends are forecast to continue‘indefinitely..

(a) What rate of return,.k:, do the-investors:anticipate?

(b) Using the.data above, but with an anticipated annual growth.tate in dividends of 10%,,what.is k,?

1.98} | ‘Financial Management

(০) ‘Investors:in.a company are known,to:require a rate of return.of 15%. Current dividends are.30p per share, just
paid. No.increase is-anticipated.
Estimate the share price.
(0) As in (c), but. dividends are‘expected to grow at 5% pa.
Again, find Po.
See.Answer at the end-of this chapter.
1:6 Cums=div-and ex-diy'share prices:
Dividends ate-paid: periodically on shares. During ‘the period prior to the:payment of dividends, the price rises in
anticipation of the: payment. At this: stage the ptice-is cum-div. This may be expressed diagrammatically.
It-will be.noted that the share goes:ex-div shortly before the dividend is paid. Any person,acquiring’the share. after
this point will not-receive the-dividend, which will be paid tothe original shareholder. The reason.is thatthe time it
takes, for the company to amend its register‘of members-requires a cut-off point beforethe dividend is, paid. Thus,
when a share is quoted cum-div, the price-includes. both the underlying ex-div’ value: of the share and the:dividend
due shortly. As‘the dividend, valuation :model considers the présent value of future dividends, the.ex-div-share pricé
for Pg must’beused.
Share
price
Cum div আলাল লু ee ey aces না ।
_ ! Share:goes
\ ex-div
Ex div : \ ; ra
ooo পালা তত তত তত তত ep ee pee
to ডে
। 4 |! oY
৷
৷! A
i ৷ ! P
Dividend 1 Dividend Time v
declared ! paid cE}
R
Share goes
ex-div 5

| ey | Interactive question 2: Cost of equity:1: (Difficulty level: Easy]:
Le The ‘market value: of a company's shares. is CU2.20. It:is. about: to pay a dividend. of 20p, which jis ‘expected to 7
" remain constant in future.
Requirement.
Cost of capital. | 199)

What isthe cost.of equity?
See Answer at the énd of this chapter.
= 5) \ Interactive quéstion-3: Cost of equity: 2' (Difficulty level: Easy]
Le A company currently pays: a-dividend of 12p which:is ‘expected. to grow at 5% per annum. The ex-dividend. share:
priceis CU1.75.
Requirement.
What is‘its.cost of equity?
See: Answer at the end of this chapter.
1.7: Estimating growth.rates
(a) Historical pattern.
The anticipated growth rate, g, is an ‘unknown, representing: a subjective estimate made ‘by. individual.
investors, It cannot be calculated precisely, but an important factor in investors’ estimates will be the
historical pattern of growth in dividends. However, the past:is often.a weak. indicator Of: the future.
(নব) ~Worked ‘example: Evaluating future'growth based on historic growth
B Assume the'following data has-been assembled concerning the net-dividend per, share paid in the-last:five years:
Year Dividend. per share
নর P
20X] 1,00
20X2 1.10
20X3. 1.20
20X4 1:34
20X5 1.48
An.approximate-average period growth rate:can be'taken by. averaging'the growth rates: of the‘individual years?
Period
1.1 ,
.20XK1--20K2 সর. = 0.100
1.0 _, i
1.2
20X2.—'20X3 Wa = 0.091

1.34.
20XK3:—20X4 না = 0.117
12 _1
20X4.—.20X5 148 0.104
eee গত 1.34 _ ~ ”
0.412 +4= 0.103 0710:3%
A more'direct compound growth. calculation. would be:
1.0.x (1. +g)’ = 1.48
; 1.48
(+g = af =
(+8) ৭10
g ='1.103— 1 =0.103'= 10.3%
| oy , Interactive:question 4: Estimating growth;rates [Difficulty level: Intermediate]
। [6৮ A company’has paid the.following dividends over 0067881 five years?
Pence/share
20X0 100
20X11. 1.10
200) | ‘Financial Management

20X2 125
20X3 136
20X4 145
Requirement
Estimate the growth.rate and,the:cost of equity:if the:current.ex-div‘market value:is €U.10.50/share.
See Answer at the end-of this chapter.
(b) Earnings retention model,
This growth, estimate ‘is based. on, the idea that retained ‘profits are the only source of: funds. With no re-
invested profits, the investment base of the company would not increase: Practically, this means no new
funds: invested.in:new products, new markets, new:factories, stores and-so on. Therefore,;profit will not:grow,
and by:implication, dividends (taking a long-term, view) will not grow.
Growth therefore comes about by retaining, and reinvesting: profits'.on which a return is: earned. The:
relationship between;these variables is:shown by:
gsrb
Where: g = growth.in.future:dividends
r= the current accounting rate-of.return
b & the:proportion:of profits retained
If all measures are constant, then it may be shown that g, the’rate-of ‘growth. of dividends, is equal to the-rate
of growth of: profits is.equal 00 the rate of growth of share price and so:on. Given.sufficient.data, you may be
required to estimate’ a growth rate based on the above model, as illustrated below.
. Consider the following summarised financial statements for XZ,Ltd:
BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31 DECEMBER 20X1
Assets 200 ‘Ordinary shares 100
‘Reserves 100
200: 200
Profit after tax.for the'year ended 31 December 20X2 CU20m
Dividends (a. 40% piayout). CU8m
BALANCE 'SHEET AS AT. 31 DECEMBER 20X2
CUm. ; CUm:
Assets: 212. Ordinary shares 100
Reserves CU(100.+:(20 —-8)) 112
212. 212:
If the company’s, accounting rate. of return,and earnings retention rate remain the same,, what will be the growth in °
dividends.in-the next year? A
TAS 1 changes‘the titles of financial statements as they will be-used in IFRSs. Balance-sheet becomes ‘statement:of T
financial position’, income statement becomes ‘statement of comprehensive ‘income’ ‘and cash. flow statement. E}
becomes 'statement:of cash. flows’. .As entities are ‘not required 00 use the new. titles, existing, and ‘new ‘names: are R
equally acceptable.
The 20X2 profit after tax as:a percentage-of opening capital.employed £20m 10%
ae oe. y al. = = 10%,
Pp Pp 8 pening cap ploy’ দ20000 0
Applying this to the .end-20X2 capital employed (10% x CU2I2m), gives a: profit: for 20X3 estimated at. ‘
CU21.20m..
Cost of capital. | 201

Therefore, the dividends for 20X3 will be 40% x CU21.20ni = CU8.48ni, representing a growth of 6% on the:
previous year's dividends.
Normally,-this is.more diréctly calculated by'the following equation:
g = (accounting rate.of return) x b(earnings retention:rate) = 10% x60% = 6%
Problems'with the Earnings‘retention:model
Note that'the accounting rate of return is:calculated with reference ‘to opening balance sheet-values..
The major problem with-this model. is:,
°. Its reliance.on-accounting. profits:
© The assumption that-r.and b-will_be:constant.
e 11080011081) substantially-distort'the accounting rate:of return if’assets are-valued on an historical.cost basis
e The model.also assumes.all new finance comes from equity

দে ০০ আমা
A company has 300,000 ordinary shares’ ‘in issue with an ex-div market: value. of CU1.35: ‘per share.
A dividend‘of €U50,000-has'just been paid 00011 post-tax profits:of CU75,000.
Net‘assets.at.the:year ‘end were-valued at CU1.06m..
Requirement
Estimate the cost:of‘equity.
See: Answer at the end’of this chapter.

1.8: Shortcomings of the dividend valuation model (DVM)

Whilst the basic premise of the DVM is perhaps’ reasonable, being that a share:is worth-more if.it pays out higher
future-dividends, there are.a‘few problems with the.underlying assumptions and with the data used..
© Underlying assumptions

— Shares have: value because of' the dividends. This. is not always true. — some companies have. a
deliberately low:payout: policy which,can-attract:investors who prefer ‘capital gains.to-an:income:stream,
Some companies pay no dividends at all, for‘example:Microsoft- up until recently paid no. dividends but
Microsoft shares‘weren't, worth nothing:

- Dividends either do not grow, or grow at-a constant raté — the former-is ‘unrealistic, the Jatter is true in
the long térm if one takes the: view. we: are: estimating a long-term average. Nevertheless, short-term
‘variations in growth would change the value,

— Estimates of. future dividends based on historic data eg, growth rate, retention rates, implicitly. assume
dividend patterns ‘will remain unchanged — it: would be. more useful to consider the future facing a
company when making this: estimate, eg market conditions, investor confidence, economic conditions
and so:on.

০. Data‘used

- The:share price is:used in‘the DVM to. help estimate the:cost of. equity-to the:company or the required

rate of‘return to the:investor.
Share prices change on. a. daily basis, and :not. always in a perfectly efficient or rational manner, For
example, the share price of a-small company, with.a dominant-family as shareholders and little trading,
may. have: a more erratic share: price than. a FTSE 100 company’ whose shares ‘trade ‘in a ‘very’ active
‘market.
— The growth.in‘future-dividends.
2021 | ‘Financial Management

This. is pérhaps: more likely ‘to be ‘linked to the growth in future earnings, ‘than to. past’ dividends.
Earnings do not featuré ds such, in the dividend valuation model. However, earnings should, bé. an
indicator of*the company’s long:term ability to pay dividends and therefore, in estimating the ‘rate of
growth. of future dividends, the-rate: of growth of 006 underlying profits must also be considered. For
example, if dividends grow at 10% while earnings grow at 5%, before Jong the firm ‘will nin out. of
‘funds with which. to ‘pay dividends. Similarly, if dividends grow at.5% and profits at 10%, the. firm.will.
soon accumulate.excess funds.
4:9 Impact of bonus issues and rights issues’
Bonus (or'scrip or capitalisation) issues raise no new money for a company: Shareholders are.given-more shares in
proportion. to: their existing holdings. The total value of all the:company’s shares’ does not change but the: value: per’
share drops in proportion.to. the:additional shares.. The fallin. price: (supposedly) makes the:shares more.attractive to
buy/sell.
Care needs to be:taken in-estimating dividend growth rates: when ‘a bonus issue has taken:place:
iC ie Worked’example: Bonus issue
‘Year 20X1 20X2 .20X3
Total dividend (CUm) 100 105. it
Total ‘number of. shares (mi): 50 50 100
Dividend per‘share (CU) 2 2.1 11
A 1-for-I (121) bonus issue: was made in, 20X3.,
The dividend per share‘figutes-might-indicate negative growth.in 20X3, but what has happened is that the:number
of shares has doubled - there is.no extra cash to invest in new projects‘to generate extra dividends.
To calculate growth,for. the dividend valuation model the;simplest:thing to.do is;to go back in.time, and-adjust the
number of’shafes‘in;20X1. and 20X2 for the bonus:issue.
Thus
‘Year 20X 1, .20X2: 20X3
Total number’of.shares (যয), 100, 100 100
Dividend per'share (CU): 1 1.05 11.1
To find the:growth:over the two‘years:
10+8 = 111
(egy = LiL
l+g = 1.0535:
g = 5.35%
No such. adjustment is, necessary for, rights issues as this does produce: an inflow: of funds for.investment in new Cc}
projects, increasing future dividends. 1]
A
1:10, CAPMand the.cost:of equity: টন
1:10:. Recap of concept E}
In Chapter 3, the CAPM was introduced as one way-of estimating the required:return on/a share and‘thus the cost. RB
of-equity capital for accompany. The basic idea. behind the CAPM is to assess how risky the business is, and “price”
that riskraccordingly. 5
The Capital Asset Pricing Model (CAPM) provides a-relationship between risk: and return:
Where: 8, = the: beta which. measures a share's (systematic) risk ‘
T= the return on the:market
লি the risk free rate-of interest
Cost of capital. | 203}

CAPM can.be-used as an alternative to the:dividend valuation model for deriving the cost'of equity.
. . D,(1+ ডা
Bither'k; = 209). +g of লাক Geo)

পর: ze Worked ‘example:‘CAPM'
Bloggins Ltd.is an all equity:company with a.B; = 1.10
The risk. free:rate-is 4% pa-and the-return.on the. market:is estimated.at,1 1% pa’
Requirement.
Calculate Bloggins' cost‘of equity.
k, =4% +1.1.(11% - 492)
k= 11.7-%
1.10.2; Estimation of the discount rate for a capital investment project
How do we'estimate the:beta factor of a.new. capital investment project?
One way to do-so is by:examining the betas. of quoted companies in a:similar line of, business to'the:new project.
At-first sight this: method appears to. be easy. For example, a firm wishes to-appraise a new project which involves
setting: up a. small,chain.of, retail food:shops. Thus:it:examines.the betas of quoted.companies which are‘involved in
food:retailing and finds the average to. be:0:8. It therefore-considers that;a suitable-beta for. the new-projectzis 0.8.
Unfortunately things-are not-this simple. The quoted,companies the. firm examines ‘may, be engaged in several, lines
of business besides food retailing, and are-also financially-geared to:different extents. Both these factors affect the
beta of-a firm. However, there. are ways round these problems, and ‘this method remains one of the most practical
ways of arriving 408 project beta. Calculations;inyolving different gearing levels are explored:in chapter. 6.
1.11, Cost of:preference shares:
Preference:shares usually:have a constant dividend. So, using the perpetuity valuation formula:
k= D
FS
Where: -D = constant annual.dividend
Pg = eX-div market value
Preference dividends are*normally- quoted as.a percentage. Thus 10% CUL preference shares-will provide an annual.
dividend. of 10%:of the CU] nominal value (not of the market value):
Foy | Interactive question 6:-Cost ofipreference shares: [Difficulty levél: Intermediate];
ie A company has 100,000 12%- preference shares.in.issue, nominal value CU1.
The currentex-div, market-value is CU1.15/share:.
Requirement.
What is-the cost.of the preference, shares?
See.Answer at the end-of this chapter.
৩2 Cost of debt
” = 7 . .
75) Section-overview
SS The:cost:of irredeemable debt can be assessed using much the.same.approach as-for-shares.
204] | ‘Financial Management

০ The. cost.of redeemable debt requires an IRR estimated.by interpolation.
e §=>- The .ef fect of ‘taxation.is to reduce, the cost of debt.
° Convertible debt requires an assessment of whether the debt will be:converted or:redeemed.
2.1 Introduction
The underlying principle of the DVM above was that the-value-of the.investment equalled the-present value of, the
cash flows received.
The same principle-is used to-identify the cost.of debt:capital.
In.simple terms:
Py:= ko for ordinary shares‘where dividends.are.constant
. Do
Py= — — for preference shares
চে
Interest ow
Pgs wees for bonds.
Where Py = Price-of the bond
Interest: = Interest paid on the-bond
ky = Required teturn of debt,holdér (= costof debtif-no tax),
(This assuimes the bond is irredeémable)
Solely from a:computational point.of: view, there are two different aspects:to:the problem:
Fixed charge
finance
Irredeemable (or Redeemable at other
redeemable at ‘current than, current market
market price) price
The computational problems. differ, and are dealt with below. In-either case the following point should.be bore in ভে
mind,— the:objective is‘to find the cost-of capital in annual compound ‘interést terms. A
2.3: Irredeemable'securities: v
If securities ate irredeemable, ‘the comipany does: not intend to repay:the principal but‘to pay interest. for éver: In, 8
this case the-present value of:a perpetuity equation may be 0560 as:introduced above:
Pox Interest S
k; 8
Where ‘Py = Present value
Tnterest: = Annual interest: (starting‘in one year's time) |
ki = Cost of debt: (with no tax)
Cost of capital. | 205)

| A Worked'example: Irredeemable debt’
Irredeemable:debt:is quoted:at:CU40%:and the.coupon (nominal):interest rate is 5%.
, What is-the return on the:security?
Notes
e => - The term ‘CU40%" means that CU.100.nominal value can be purchased. for 0040
© The nominal or couponrate:of 5% ‘means ‘investors will receive CUS: pa'for.each CU100:nominal value of
debt security purchased.
aso: £5; cu.
The return on this investment'= —— =:0:125 or 125%
£AQ cu
০ টা another way if the debt pays CUS pa and investors require;a 12.5% return, the:debt:is worth 0125 =
CU40
ন্্৷জ- paying only CU40 for the-debt, investors:have forced the return up'to 12.5%..Presumably they would.not
pay CU100 for it.as‘this would-give them a‘return of only:
cU
SO 5%

© CU40‘is the current.market;value.of the debt. Ifit-had originally been issued at;CU100, then its historical
return, would have been 5% (the 'coupon,rate’). More importantly, if-the company were to raise new debt, it:
would now:cost 12.5%
a Worked example: Securities redeemable at current market price:
If the debt were'to be:redeemed at CU40 in three years’ time, what would:the:investors' return be?
Instead of. enjoying a-return of CU5 from-year-4. to ‘infinity, they would receive CU40 repayment ‘at:year 3. The
present value of CUS5:per-year from 6814 to-infinity in year 3 terms is:

——— =CU40, ie’the same asthe redemption amount,
0.125. "
Therefore, the-rate of:return.is the-same'— still 12.5%.
Thus,-in Summary,. where:
either (a) The debt:is irredeémable;,
or (b) ‘The current market price equals the-tedemption price
then:
. oar annual interest payment _ ‘Interest
Cost-to.company = return to investor = -___>—_—-_ = —___—.
a market price R
This ignores taxation. The effect of tax:is explored in:section 2:5 below
24, Securities redeemable ‘at other than current market price
Where there is a difference: between.the current market price: and ‘the redemption price, there are’ two elements’ to
the.cost of that security:
০ = Interest, payments, :ie,an-income return;
৩ /:০৪৮10831 gain’ or. loss represented by ‘the difference between. the. current. market price’ and the redemption
price.
| xe Worked'éxamplé:Rédeemable debt
168 company's‘debenture stock is‘quoted at CU65.75%, coupon.interest:is 9% pa‘just.paid, and:redemption.is in ten
, years’ ‘time at’ par, then what is the cost. of. the debt: capital. ‘as an annual -rate: using’ trial. and error ‘and linear
interpolation?
2.06} | ‘Financial Management

The objective‘is to find’a way of’expressing this 91008001071) terms of an interest cost.
The total return is' referred to:as the. 'gross.redemption yield’. In practice bond-yield tables would be used, but the
examination requires the-ability to calculate the.gross redemption yield from-first principles:
In, general, if-the debt is redeemable in,n-years' time, the cost is‘the internal rate. of return of the ‘following cash
flows:
to = Market. value:
t; —-t, = Interest
t, = Redemption, price
Cash flows 15% PV 20% PV
cU factor €U factor, CU
10. (65.75) | (65.75) | (65.75)
tl-t10 9.00. 5,019 45.17 4.192 37,73
t10 100.00 0.247 24:70 0.162 16.20
412 (11.82)
Since this.is positive,
increase.to'20%
Cost-of debt= 15% + সস x: (20 —15)% = 16%.
A12+411.82 ~~
2.5 Effect of-taxation.
An-important/aspect in evaluating the cost. of. finance is the effect-of tax: Loan 11106169019 an allowable expense for
corporation.tax, effectively reducing the cost.of.loan. finance to the company.
: gy ‘Worked example: Effect of taxation
Consider: two companies, A Ltd and .B Ltd, with identical. operating profits of CU100,000 on which: they pay
corporation. tax at 21%. However, B: Ltd.has:in issue: CU50,000 of debentures on which.it is: paying:20% interest
(CU10,000 per annum).
Requirement
How does.tax-influence the.cost of debt?
A Ltd B Ltd. ‘Difference (A —B)
cu cu CU.
Operating profit 100,000 100,000 চু
Interest (10,000) (10,000) 6
Profit before’tax 100,000 90,000 Fa)
Tax @21% (21,000). (18,900) 2,100. A
Earnings available for equity. 79,000 71,100 (7,900) Py
MM]. 10253501010 v
The effective ‘interest’ cost to the company ‘is CU7,900, or 15:8% of. ‘the CU50,000 .debentures.. This:‘may be R
expressed in a.general form, where:kg 13016 after-tax.cost and.T the corporation tax.rate.
Net of tax.cost‘of. debt,.k, = Pre-tax cost of debt (1 —T) L
In-this example.ky = 20%.(1. 0:21) =.15:8% (as above). 8
The adjustment is. only valid for itredeemable ‘loan, stocks or'those redeemable at curfent imarket price, assuming
immediate tax:relief. :
Cost of capital. | P07

_ Interest (1-1)
Fy
ry | Interactive question 7:.Effect of taxation’ (Difficulty level: Intermediate],

(6৮ 1292. ‘irredeemable: debentures with a ‘nominal value of 00100 are. quoted at 0092 cum. interest:. The. rate of

corporation taxis 21%.
Requirements
(a) Find the gross:réturn-required by the debenture ‘holders
(b) Find-the net.of'tax cost to the company.
See: Answer at the 2110-01 this chapter.

2.6. ‘Taxation and.premium on redemption:

Where there is a premium on redemption; the tax position is. more complex: The procedure is to calculate an
internal rate of return:on the pre-tax,cash flows. This is:also known.as the gross;redemption yield. The post-tax cost:
of debt-is then calculated by multiplying: the gross redemption yield.by’(1.— T). Thus, thepre-tax cost-is the internal.
rate of return of the following:cash flows:
ty =-ex-interestimarket value
t; —t, = Interest
t, =redemption price:

i == Interactive question 8:/Taxation:and premium on redemption: নবান্নের

না A company has 10% debentures in issué.quoted.at-CU98 ex interest. The-debentures will be redeemed.in.five-years
at a premium-of 5% compared.to the:nominal value.
Corporation tax:rate = 21%
Requirement
What is‘the cost,to the:company if interest is‘paid.annually?
See Answer at the énd of this chapter.

2.7: Convertible debentures/loan'stock

Convertible debentures/loan stock allow the investor. to choose: between taking cash on.redemption, or converting
the:debentures into a pre-determined number of shares.

2081 | ‘Financial Management

Step 1 Calculate the value of the:conversion option using available data:
Step 2 Compare the:coriversion, option ‘with:the ¢ash option. Assume all investors will choose the:option.
with the higher value.
Step 3 Calculate the IRR of the'flows as for redeemable debentures.
Noté: There-is no.tax:éffect:whichever option is‘chosen.at the:conVersion, date.
ry ; Interactive question 9: Loan stock [Difficulty level: Intermediate]
Le A company’ has. ‘in ‘issue 8% ‘convertible loan stock currently quoted at CU85 ex interest. The loan stock is
redeemable at a,5% premium.in-five years’ time, or.can be converted into 40 ordinary shares at that date.
The curtent'MV ex. div. of shares is CU2/share with a dividend growth of 7%.
Requirement.
What is the cost.to the company of the‘loan stock?
Corporation tax='21%,
See.Answer at the end of this chapter.
3 Combined cost of capital or weighted average cost of capital
~ = ৰৈ ৰৈ
5 Section.overview
স্পা ০ The WACG:is the cost of the pool of:funds — both ০0010 8110-02800- within a-business..
ও The: weightings should reflect the future capital ‘structure of the.company.
° The weightings:should be based.on;market: values.
e = Calculation‘of the WACC assumes no changes in.the.financial or'systematic‘risk.of the company.
3.1, ‘The concept of:a‘weighted average cost of capital
In the analysis carried out so. far, each source Of finance ‘has been examined, in, iSolation.. However, in, practice,
funds. ‘for businesses come from various sources. There is not- normally any separation between funds ‘from
different! Sources.and their application to spécific projects.
ও
Funds:from Funds from A
equity sources other sources: P
> Pool of কা v
funds 1}
Used ‘to finance various investmentprojects iS
In order to provide a. measure for evaluating these projects, the cost-of the pool of funds-is.required. ‘The general
approach ig to calculate the cost'of each source-of finance, then'to weight'these according-to. their: importance:in: the
financing mix. This is-referred’to as the combined or:weighted average: cost:of capital, (WACC).
Cost of capital. | 209)

'3:2: The'choice of weights

The importance‘of each-source-of finance’in the mix may be'measured.in various’ ways.

Weights based on proposed financing:versus historical finance‘mix

As has already been discussed,-the cost-of.capital should reflect-future:costs of finance, because:in decision-making

concern is only with:the future. Weights based on the future-financing:mix would.therefore’ seem to 02 the logical

choice. However, caution must be.exercised. Consider the. following:illustration.
Sport.Ltd-has traditionally raised.funds in the proportion 50% equity : 50% debt. Consultants have estimated from
current:market'data that-these sources of:finance.have the following: costs:

Cost of equity 20%

Cost of debt 10%

Sport.Ltd is appraising a new project costing শো] million which it-intends ‘to finance ‘entirely by .a ‘new issue. of

debt.

(a) What.discount-rate should-ituse to appraise the project?

(b) If 50% equity: 50% debt is considered the best mix, why‘use:just debt'for the new project?

(c) If just-debt is,being used, why not.discount the project using the cost.of debt?

(d) What.are‘the likély implications for‘the cost of equity, and thus the WACC, ifthe debt increases significantly
such that the long ‘term gearing changes?

(a) This depends upon what:is assumed.,

The most, likely situation is-that.in the long run the firm will maintain its historical :mix and, raise'funds in
the proportion. 50%. equity : 50% debt. ‘Presumably the firm has. traditionally used these proportions. as: it.
considers them. to. give the.'best': mix of finance.

In this case the weighted ‘average cost.of:capital (WACC) will be as:follows:
Proportion:of equity funding ’x:costtof equity'+ Proportion of debt funding x:cost of debt

= 0.5:x:20% + 0.5 «x 10% = 15%

(b) If a capital structure of 50% equity. and 50% debt is considered the best mix, why is the firm raising new
furids entirely by debt? The :most likely answer is ‘that. transaction. costs would make ‘the issue of. small
amounts of.debt'and equity prohibitively ‘expensive. The. firm would therefore raise:debt?on this occasion,.and
equity on the.next:round of. fund-raising, aiming to keep its long-run. structure: at 50:50. This. is.a.common
practice and‘investors would.understand the:firm's approach.

(c) Discounting using the cost of debt, ie 10%, is inappropriate becaise’this represents the risk to the lenders.and
riot that of the project.

Using specific costs. of capital-in this way would mean that a-project with an IRR, of 15% would be accepted
if'the cash were‘to come’from.a new’issue of debt but'rejected if-from a-share-issue.

(d) If the-firm. were-to change-to long-run, proportions of finance-involving much, higher. levels of debt; then the
underlying costs of funds would probably change. Equity holders would see: their position as being much
more:risky (as large amounts of debt‘interést-would néed'to be paid before they received a dividend) and debt
investors Would have little security for their‘Ioans,. Both would ask for’ higher returns to-compensate ‘for the
incréased risk and the:figures.given-in the illustration:could well:change.

What-would be:the résult?
Suppose: that financing the new: project entirely ‘by debt signals, the ‘firm's intention to change to’ a new
financing mix of, 75% debt : 25% equity. Investors react.to:this change by adjusting their required returns: to:
Cost of equity 22%,
Cost:of debt 12%,

210) | ‘Financial. Management

The new combined cost of capital ‘would then be:
0.25 x 22% :+:0.75 % 12% = 14.5%
In this-case the move has been beneficial, resulting:in a lower combined cost. of funds: The most: important
point; however; is, that-the costs of debt and equity:have changed, and_in‘this situation the-original estimates
above, which were based_on the current level:of gearing, cannot be employed.
Substantial changes in the long-run financing-mix,can, change the.costs of funds. This will be.investigated in
more:detail in the-next chapter. on capital structure.
3.3: Conclusion:
The cost. of an individual, source of finance should not be associated with an individual project. In the above
example it would be incorrect:to:discount project returns at the cost of debt because: it was being financed entirely
by debt. In the long run the-firm, would,need:to raise some equity: to balance the debt finance and the:cost of the
6verall pool of funds should be considered, not'the costs of individual sources. of finance,
The weiglitings. should. be. based. on the. long-run, proportions in which future:funds are to be:raised. This.is often
estimated. from the:past proportions :in which funds were-raised. This. approach.should be adopted. unless there is
good.evidence that the future mix will change.
If-it:is:known that the future financing mix is:to change, the calculations should be based:on these-new proportions.
It should also be noted that if proportions of debt and equity change, their costs could also alter, as will be
discussed. in‘the :nextschapter.,
3.4| Market or book weights’
If the past proportions in which. funds were raised, are ‘used, their weights may be measured by reference ‘to book,
values or market values. Book weights normally give a lower cost a8 the proportion. of equity is much: sinaller,
since’the value of-equity in.the balance sheet (nominal or par value plus:retained earnings, share premium account,
etc) owes-much to.history, ০৪ when. the shares were issued originally’ and at. what: price, rather than to'the current:
value of those.shares. Market weights are:far’more:meaningful..
Whenever possible calculations should be based on market'weights which:teprésent the opportunity cost of: finance:
(at' what’ value-it:could beredeemed, othe value at’‘which new funds could bée-raised)..
Note that when using market values, reserves (such as;share premium and rétained,€arnings) are-ignored. They are
in effect,incorporated in the-value of-the equity.
3.5: Procedure for calculating WACC.
The company's weighted-average cost‘of capital,.k;.is defined as.follows:
kK — (MV, xk.) +(MV, xky)
oo MV,.+ MV,
Where’ MV, = total market value ০811 the equity C}
‘MV, =:total market; value‘of. all the debt EY)
A
That is, the individual .costs of equity and debt capital are’ taken. and each is weighted by the proportion. of its P
market. value to the company's total:market’ value. v

Thus,.given the following:data about.a.company: v7
MV, = CU500,000
MV, = CU500,000 র্‌
‘Cost of capital. | oil

Requirement
What is the WACC?
Solution:
Substituting this:data into the:expression for the WACC:
ka (“300,000 x0.20)+(300,000x0.10) _ 0.15
nS cu(500,000 + 500,000) ~
15%-is the-discount rate to be used.in the. company's investment appraisal.
This formula can be-extended to incorporate: other forms :of long-term finance, such.as preference: shares or bank:
loans. ‘
[নথ Interactive question'10: Calculating WACC. [Difficulty level: Easy]:
2) The market value of:the debt'is CU.1m:and its cost is'6%.
The market value of:the equity'is CU2m and its-cost is 15%.
Requirement.
Calculate the WACG.
See Answer at the end:of this chapter.
3.6. When‘to:use the.weighted average cost of capital:
The weighted.average cost of ‘capital calculated in‘the above example is based on the firm's current costs of equity
and debt! In using it to appraise projects, the following assumptions ate-implicitly made:
০. The.historical proportions of.debt and equity:are:not to be-changed
The ‘cost of. equity and. debt based on current market :information,reflects the firm's ‘current gearing.ratio. If’
the firm:substantially ‘changes the -long:run proportions in which.funds are raised, then the:costs of equity and
debt are likely. to change, with. a. resulting. alteration. in the combined cost: of capital. This. changing of. the
company's:so-called:financial risk:is the-subject of the.next.chapter.
e The systematic business risk of the:firm is'not'to be changed
The firm's current costs of equity and debt also reflect the risks in its curfént-area of operations. For example,
high-risk’ 61600010163 companies are. likely ‘to have higher costs Of funds than; say, low: risk food
manufacturers. If.4 food.manufacturing.comipany were to diversify into electronics, its costs offinance-would
change. Current éstimates of thé cost of capital, are: therefore: only suitable ‘for appraising invéstinents of
Similar systematic business :tisk. CAPM. could be: used. to derive the cost of equity where the risk of ‘the
projects different from existing-activities.
০. The‘finance.is not project specific:
In.some circumstances it‘is unwise:to-use.the‘average cost:of.a pool of funds. Suppose a government.offered a
multinational company’an interest-free loan to encourage.it ‘to invest in a ‘particular country. In:this situation it
would be unwise, to put the:cheap.loan:into the pool of:funds and spread its benefit‘over all projects, -as it:is
associated with only one:specific project. In‘these circumstances the benefits:of the cheap finance would.need
to be:credited.to.the project. Fortunately this. problem.is outside the:syllabus.
2121 | ‘Financial Management

3.7. Other:problems.with the weighted’ average ‘cost of capital!
e Which:sources of finance to include
The above:examples have concentrated on the cost of long-term finance..Firms.also_raise: finance from short-.
term:sources, eg overdrafts, short-term loans, trade.credit and so on..It.is possible to calculate-a cost.for short-
term-finance-and it:needs to.be decided whether it should.be included.in the calculations.
The usual argument is'that:the weighted average ০০১৮০ capital is a tool. for appraising.long-term investments
and; as these-should only be-financed by long-term funds, the costs:of short-term,funds should be excluded.
However, if it is clear that short-term, finance is being ‘used to fund ‘long-term: projects, then it should. be
included:
eo Loans without market‘values
Bank Joans do not have marker "81063 in the same way as debentures. The most practical approach in ‘this
Case is’to‘take the:book:valueé:of loans:as an approximation to market value,
০. Cost.of.capital for:small companies
There are important:factors-relevant tothe cost?of. capital of small companies:
- If the company-is unquoted, obtaining the cost‘of.finance-is much more: difficult
— The lack of liquidity offered’ by the. company's securities, plus the smaller. size of the company, tend to
make finance more expensive:
ডে

A
Re
v
|
R
P
‘Cost of capital. | 2.131

Summary:
a)
ompmuchicocsitccs aa p
itolfinanceraibusiness 4 ,
Gast dap (® bin introstdiexhtims,
Fsuchythatycurrentumarketiprice/ofjthe:investmentequals
ithersumyofithe:discounted|valuesvofpall|futurescasth
flomsfrelatinov otne|imestmentXfromtnerponconviews |
A ofitheibusiness’ E
equity, Interest}payments
US ).|| 5 WeckedRotaedsantotemeads, || | tecaaraitto
. fexceptithat:
_ Le Sma cdividendsfarelnotitax(deductible, A paymentlisy79°7cfot
f \ EMidivicendstneedinotralwaysibey aRthe:couponirates |
৬5০৫৩৫৮০৪৬৪ - [৮5৫০
i Eithenconstant( সস ৬০0 - | | { ওয়ার্ড |
Sm Ogassumelalconstantiratelotme amet 9) , convertediversusivalue)
Mividendlgromth(@) ep 9 asidebuandsclecy
‘ (Gordonfgrowth{model)) র্‌ 11011650001013001/70ধ
Ne - রর 1০৮০০৭3৮০০২ ,
(e \. =. '/ Redeemable) \:
| Game@ersai> |: \
1 @imtigg Relic ceshitons facedibyjthe
fisqneededwnhen extrapolate ; i ,
শান historic Whetstiie |, Rees sccemptionvaluc) |
| Gh | | ooxnlase 00০৬ রণ
dividends} per টং পি এ a |
sharewwiien]
AWhaveloccurred / 8300090৬০30)
\ j ৪252-5০-০০
জা | দে!
ও 003৫696 |
0 | ‘Financial. Management

Self-test:
Answer. the following:questions.
J An all-equity financed company distributes 80% of its earnings each ‘year and reinvests the balance:. The:
return.on-its projects is a. constant 15% per annum.
If the company’s current:market capitalisation is: CUL:S million and its earnings ‘are CU.125,000, what is the
required rate:of return for the-ordinary shareholder?
2 The following.data_relates to‘an.all-equity financed company:
Dividend just paid, CU180,000
‘Earnings retained ‘and invested’ 40%
Return on.investments 15%
Cost of equity 20%
What.is the market value (to the nearest,CU000)?
ও -Aminvestmentianalyst.expects a.company, which. has a history of constant annual dividend growth of 10%, to
pay in one year's time’ a dividend. of 10p ‘per share and 00 have in.one ‘year's ‘time a cum-div share price: of
CU1.20. Its ‘annual cost of:equity capital is 20%.
What.would be the current.cum-div share price (to the nearest penny) using the dividend growth model?
4 The dividends‘ paid.by Drood.Ltd.over, the past.four, years are:as follows:
Year 20X4 20X5 20X6 20X7
CUm CUm CUm CcUm
Dividend 50 54 61 68
The:company had 200 million issued shares entitled to dividends in.20X4. but made a scrip issue-of"].+ 2 in
January 20X7. The.ex-diy price:per share‘on 1 January 20X8.is CU4.50.
What.is the expected return on the-shares?
5 The price of a company’s shares is currently CU40 ex-div. The;latest:dividend is;CU3 per, share:
If the company's cost of equity‘is 10% per annum, what*is the implicit constant. annual dividend growth rate?
6 A company has just declaréd.a dividend of 39.25p per‘share. Previous dividends have been as'follows:
Four years.ago 30.00p
Three years ago 32.40p
Two years ‘ago 34.50p 2
One year-ago 36.50p A
. Re
The current’ex-dividend.market:value per share‘is 8311p. Tv
What.is the estimated. cost.of equity-capital?. 8
7 The summarised.income statement:for a. company for the:last year'is as follows: L
CUm [01
Profit before taxation 100
Taxation (40)
Profit after taxation 60 ,
Dividends on.ordinary shares (40)
Cost of capital. | 215)

-Retained.earnings 20
‘Shareholders’ equity. of CU556':million. is shown in the balance: ‘sheet at. the beginning of the: year. The
‘company maintains a.ratio of retained earnings’to dividends of. 1: 2.

Using the’ earnings‘retention model, what isthe dividend.growth‘rate?

8 Corbet Ltd-has just paid.a.dividend of CU1.20 per share. The.last accounts show that its earnings per’share
were CU2.50 and that the value: ofits assets was.CU6 million. There are 500,000 shares in issue currently
quoted at CU8:ex-div..

What.is the cost‘of capital of Corbet Ltd?

9 মা years ago a-compainy paid.a dividend of CU610,000.0n a share capital, of 4. million ordinary shares of
5072. It has just.paid a dividend of CU960,000 on the same share capital, and the current-market price of the
shares is-300p.

What.is the estimated cost'of equity capital?

10 The ordinary dividend growth rates-of Little Ltd,.on:an, annual basis, forthe past ten,calendar years have been,
as. follows:

Years Dividend. growth rate
20X0'to 204 5.0%
20X5 26.7%
20X6'to:20X9 10.0%
The-ordinary shares have been listed since January 20X95.
What. is the appropriate dividend growth rate to use when..estimating the cost ‘of’ equity capital at 31
December 20X9?

11. Quinton Ltd maintains-a ratio:of retained.earnings.to-dividends of. 1 : 3. Its.summarised income. statement for
the year ended.31 December 20X5 was as'follows:

Profit before. tax 500.

Taxation (100)

Dividends on, ordinary shares, (300)

Retained earnings 100.

‘The shareholders’ equity is: CU4,500,000.

What.is the dividend growth rate-per annum-computed via’ the earnings retention. model?

12: A-‘company. is issuing ‘a ten year “7%: redeemable debenture at par-in ‘a market: where similar ‘securities, are
yielding 10% per-annum.

What-is the minimum redemption, premium (to the: nearest. CU), Gn, CU100 of debt that ‘the company miust'
offer? (Assume debentire interest:is payable-anriually.)

13 A company issued its 10% irredeemable debentures 30:95. The. current market price is 90. The company ‘is
paying corporation tax at a-rate 06219.

What-is the current post-tax: cost of capital per annum of these.debenturés?

14: A company has 15% debentures of. CU100. nominal. value. Investors require a gross yield of 12% on such
debenture stock.

If the corporation tax.rate is.21%, what isthe post-tax cost.of the debentures:to:the company.)

15 Norley Ltd's irredeemable:preference:shares have a coupon rate of 8% arid pay a dividend of \CU4 per CUI00
nominal yalue-on 1 January and 1 July each year.

If the cum-dividend price.on 1 January is 086, what:is the:annual cost-of the preference-share capital: to the
company?

‘16 A company's 6% itredeemable-preference shares of CU each: have: 4 market price of 65p. The company-is
paying corporation tax at arate of 21.%.

What is the cost:of. preference share-capital?

17 Oldcourt Ltd's capital structure is:as follows:

CcUm
216} | ‘Financial Management

CU1 ordinary shares: 12
8% CU] préference shares 6
12.5% loan.stock 20X2 8

The loan. stock’ is redeemable. at par in. 20X2,. The current market prices of the company's Securities: are: as
follows:
গে ordinary. shares 225p
8% CU ‘preference shares 92p
12.5% loan stock:20X2 CU100
The company is ‘paying corporation tax at.the' rate.of 21%. The cost.of the.company's ordinary equity capital
has been-estimated at 15% per'annum..
What is the company's weighted average cost.of capital for’capital investment appraisal purposes?
‘18 A company’s capital-structure is-as follows:
10 million CU ordinary shares 10
Reserves 4
13% loan.stock:20X4 7

The loan. stock; is redeémable at par in 20X4. Currént market. prices for the Company's securities are as
follows:
CU] ofdinary shares. 280p
13% loan stock 20X4 CUL00
The company is paying corporation tax at a rate of 21%. The cost. of the company’s equity capital ‘has been,
estimated at. 12% per:annum.
What.is the company's per annum-weighted average.cost‘of capital.for capital investment appraisal purposes?
19° Earnings and ‘interest, payments-for the following firm are.constant-in perpetuity. All, prices.are ex-dividend or
ex-interest;with payments made annually. The firm,has..100:million.shares issued and_fully. paid at a:nominal
value of 25p and a.market, price of 120p. The dividends per share-are 24p: The issued debt,consists of CU160
million (nominal value):of irredeemable loans-with a coupon rate:of 6%. The debt is.currently:traded at CU50
per CU100:nominal. The rate of’corporation tax.is 21.%..
What.is the firm's’post-tax weighted average:cost of capital?
20 Portrush. Ltd's capital structure is as follows:
CUm.
15 million U1 ordinary:shares 15
Reserves 8
12% debentures 20X0 6

The debentures are.redeemable at par, in 20X0. The current:market' prices for the company's securities are as
follows:
CU1 ordinary shares 160p. GC}
12% debentures 20X0: CU100 [||
The company ‘is: paying corporation. tax. at the rate of: 2:1.%. The-cost 0016 company's equity capital-has been, a
estimated ‘at.16% per'annum. T
What is the company's weighted average cost’of capital.for capital investment.appraisal' purposes? cE}
21 Bryan Ltd has 10 million 25p ordinary shares in .issue with a current price of 155p cum-div. An annual R
dividend of. 9p has been proposed. ‘The company has adopted a policy of no ‘interim dividend. payments for.
some years and.those annual dividends: have been growing at a:steady‘rate of 6% per annum. The company's ‘a
other.major source.of funds is a bank loan-of CU7 million. which-has.an.annual.cost of 13%. 8
If.Bryan Ltd pays: corporation‘tax at.a rate. of 21%,'what-is its post-tax weighted.average cost’of capital?
22. A compaiiy is considering an investment which: will require an.initial. outlay of CU300,000 and will produce 7
cash.inflows.of CUT25,000 in perpetuity: Other details areas follows:
Authorised share capital 10 million 25p ‘shares
‘Cost of capital. | 17

15360 ‘share capital 5 million 25p:shares
Current market price’ per share (cum-div) CUI.25
Normal annual dividend 25p
If the company accepts the project- and ‘finances. it by’ reducing the forthcoming dividend, what will be the:
new. (cum-div) share price,-assuming that'the-shareholders, have: perféct'knowledge-about the project?
23 (a) STOCK LTD
Stock Ltd:has, demonstrated a constant growth in dividends of-4% for several, years. One. year. ago the
dividend was 25p.per share:and.the most recent dividend is due to be:paid, shortly. The: shares have a
nominal value of CU1.00 aid.a.market-valué.of CUL.98 cum-div:
Requirement.
What:ts the cost:of equity capital?.
(b) Nails Ltd
The-following.represents a:five-year-summary of the results of. Nails Ltd.
20Y¥2 20Y1. 20¥0 20X9 20X8'
CUm CUm CUm CUm CcUm
Net assets ‘1,585 1,486 1,390 1,301 1,223
Share capital 560 560 560, 560 560
Share premium, 280 280 280, 280 280
‘Retained earnings 745 646 550: 461 383
1,585 1,486: 1,390. 1,301 1,223
‘Profit after tax 124 118 111 98 92:
‘Dividend 25 22 22 20: 19.
Profit retained. 99 96 89 78: 73
‘The-share capital is made up:entirely of‘CU1 ordinary shares. The share price is: currently. quoted-at 61p
ex-div.
Requirement,
Calculate:the:cost of equity:capital for Nails Ltd.
(c) Equity cost.of capital
A.company’s: profit after tax forthe year. just-ended 15 CU282;000. Out.of this.a dividend of CU95,880
will be paid. At-the Close ofthe yéar shareholders" funds total, CU3,711,120. Equity. capital:consists of:
426,000 CUI ordinary shares each valued.at‘CU1.475:cum-div..
Requirement.
What:is the cost:of equity-capital?.
(d) Equity capital
A company's-dividend history. is as detailed below.
CUm
20X6 19:2.
20X7 19°9
20X8; 20.6
20X9. 21.3
2040 21.9
‘20Y.1.Gust:paid) 22:7
The company has 336 million CU1 ordinary’shares valued.at par.
Requirement
Calculate'the cost of equity. capital,
(০) ‘Delta Ltd
Delta:Ltd,has paid the-following:dividends over recent-years.
CU
20X8 520,000
20309. 551,000
20Y0 584,300
20Y1 100,000
AB | ‘Financial. Management

202. ০19,300
The cufrent market. capitalisation is CU6,587,100. This includes ‘the 20Y2 dividend due tobe paid
Shortly:

Requirement;

What‘is the ০০৪00087108] for this-all-equity.financed company?

@® Ox«Lta
Oz:Ltd's dividends:in recent.years can be summarised as follows:
20W9 860
20X0 1,020.
20X1 610
20X2 670
20X3 738.
20X4 813°
20X5 895
20X6 980
20X7 1,082
20X8 1,190
‘20X9 474
20¥0 2,100
Current market capitalisation of equity:is CU22.63m, the 20Y0 dividend having been paid recently. The
dividends paid-in 20X9 and.20Y0 were wholly uncharacteristic.and it is-widely believed that the.former
trends-in dividends will be re-established in 20Y1.

Requirement
Estimate the cost:of equity’capital.

(g) Debt capital,

A. company's capital, structure includes 5010. 8%. irredeemablé debentiires valued. 4৮ CU85%.
Corporation‘tax is charged at 21%,

‘Requirement

Calculate the: post-tax: cost of'debt capital.

(h) Corporation tax
A company has ‘in issue. 20 ‘million 7.5% irredeemable.debentures. Debt investors’ currently demand.a
return of 6%. Interest is paid annually and the last payment was made ‘several weeks ago.. Corporation
tax is 21%.

Requirement

Calculate:the:post-tax cost of:debt to the:company.

0) Debentures ডে

A.company has in issue-CU20 million. 7%-06202110015$ 16022113016 at par in eight years’ time. ‘Interest is. A

paid annually:and qualifies for immediate tax relief at 2.1%. ‘Investors require a:return:of 10%.. [7
v

Requirement B

Estimate the post-tax cost.of debt capital.

G) Convertible.debt. iS
A. company has in-issue 6% convertible debentures. Interest ‘is paid annually and is. eligible for
immediate tax ‘relief at 21%, On the conyersion date in.two years’ time, investors:can choose between.

CU100 cash or ordinary shares valued at CU95 ‘in return. for every CU100 (nominal) of debentures. চু
These investors 00া13110-3.7200111 07592.
Requirement:

Cost of capital. | 219)

Calculate:the cost of this:convertiblé debt to the-compariy.
24 FIZZERS LTD
Fizzers. Ltd is a:listed Bangladeshi.company which :makes.a range of soft drinks, over 90% of which.are sold.
in. Bangladesh, market. The company:currently has a cash surplus,-and the-directors are contemplating a,major
investment.in a plant ‘in the Middle East.to supply the local, market. The.Middle East.market, important for
the:company, is:currently:supplied from Bangladesh.
To assess the economic viability of the investment, the finance department. needs. a rate at which to discount
the projected cash ‘flows from the plant. It has been decided to use the company's ‘weighted ‘average cost of
capital (WACC), deducing the cost of-equity through the dividend. growth:model.
The company's most recent: balance sheet, dated 31 August ‘20X9, included the: following ‘capital and.
reserves' section.
CU'000
Called up share:capital (ordinary‘shares of CU0.10 each, fully paid) 55750
Retained earnings 29,750
The company also had in issue: CU100. million of 99% loan stock. ‘This’ is to: be redeemed on | September’
20Y0.at:par. Interest is payable (in arrears) on 1 September’each year. It.has been: the company’s practice to
pay'a single dividend each year. during September.
Dividends paid per-share over recentyears have.been as follows:
Pence
204 21:25
20X5: 22.50
20X6 22.50
20X7 24.50
20X8: 25.00
The 20X9 dividerid will be 25.50 pence per share. The company’s issued, and fully paid share capital has -not
altered sincé.20X3:
At 31 August 20X9 the shares were: quoted at CU3.35 per share (cum-div) and ‘the loan stock at:-CU101.72.
(cum=interest) per CU100 nominal.
The corporation tax:rate is:expected :to:remain at:21.% for the foreseeable-future.
Requirements
(a) Determine:the company's weighted-average cost‘of capital, explaining your workings and justifying, any
assumptions which, you have:made. (9 marks)
(b) Explain why the figure:which you: have determined in (a) may not'be totally reliable:for the purpose for
‘whichit.has: been determined. (5 marks)
(c) As.an alternative to investing’in the: Middle: Eastern plant the.directors are considering a takeover: bid
for'Zoom.Ltd., another soft. drinks manufacturer.
Set out-the advantages and. disadvantages Of the following.thtee types of bid.
(i) Cash
(ii) Sharé-for-share-exchange:
ii) ‘Loan stock. for;share exchange. (6 marks)
(20 marks)
25 THAMOS LTD
Thamos:. Ltd. is: a successful food. retailing: company. Over the last five: years it has increased ‘its: share of
Bangladesh food retail. market by 30%. It:makes.no use of. debt.and has financed.:its: operations entirely from.
retained. carnings. Thamos Ltd has a current price/earnings ratio of 28 compared with the food retailing sector
average of 19. Other financial data relating tothe company are-shown below.
220. | ‘Financial Management

20X2 20X3 20x4 20xX5 20X6
P a pe P P
Earnings per-share 16.10 19:30 ‘24:70 30.50 35.80
Net dividend per share 4:86 5,86 7.50 9.00 11,00
Book value of equity per-share 103.00 124.00 142,00 165.00 190.00
Requirements
(8) Estimate the cost-of equity capital for Thamos Ltd using the following.
(i) Dividend growth:model
(ii) Earnings retention model. (6 marks)
(b) Discuss whether the assumptions underlying the models: used in; part (a) are:realistic, and explain how
the effects of using these assumptions are reflected in the results ‘obtained.
(6 marks)
(c) Explain why managers ‘need. to know the cost ‘of the equity ‘capital ‘of their companies.
(6 marks)
(18 marks)
26 .OSMIN.LTD
The directors of Osmin Ltd are considering opening a factory to iianufacture-a new product. Detailed
forecasts of the product's expected cash flows have been made, and it is estimated. that an initial capital.
investment. of CU2.5 million is tequired, The company's current (3:1 December 20X11) authorised share
capital consists of 4 million ordinary. shares, each’with.ainominal value of-25p.-During the last five years’the
number of ‘shares in issue-has‘remained.constant:at.3 million, and the market price-per’share at 3:1 December’
20X11 is 135p ex-dividend.
The company: pays only one dividend each year (on.31, December) and dividends forthe last‘five years have
been as follows..
Year 20W7 20W8 20W9 20X0 20X1
Dividend per‘share (pence) 10.0 1028 116 13.6 13.6
Osmin Ltd currently has in:issue CU800,000' 8% debentures: redeemable 80,031 on 31 (December 2075. The
current market price of these debentures is CU82.50 ex-interest, and the. interest is payable :in one amount
each year on 31 December. The company. also has outstanding a CU900,000 bank: loan repayable on, 31
December 20X9. The rate of interest’on this. loan is variable, being-fixed at: 1.5% above-the bank's base:rate:
which:is currently 15%.
Requirements
(a) Calculate the weighted average’ cost:of capital.(WACC) for Osmin.Ltd as 3031 December 20X11. (6
marks)
ও
(b) Explain briefly to the directors of Osmin. Ltd what.:assumptions they’ 876 making .if the WACC গা
calculation in.(a) above 19 0560 to discount the:expected cash.flows of the project. (6 marks) A
(c) Describe the‘practical problems that might be encountered when attempting:to compute the WACC for P
a large Bangladeshi. listed. company. (8 marks) i
Note. Ignore ‘taxation, (20 marks) R
27 CROWLANDS LTD t
Crowlands Lid.is.a listed manufacturing company:financed bya mixture of. debt and equity. ‘The company’s 8
finance department is-about to undertake its annual :revision of the weighted average cost, of capital (WACC)
for‘use‘in, all 01016 company’s ‘investment appraisals, for the.forthcoming year. The-following information on
the:company's long-term:-financing was available-as, at:3 1:May 20X11. .
| Cum
220 million-ordinary-sharés of 25 pence each 55
‘Cost of capital. | 221

Share premium 23
Revaluation-reserve 26
Retained.éarnings 33
12% loan stock (20X3) 100
The loan stock“interest for the year‘has-just been‘ paid. Interest.on this.loan’ will be‘paid on 31, May'20X2.and.20X3.
On.the:latter‘date:the loan stock, will be redeemed 81 08111 cash. The company,has also just paid a:dividend ‘on, its
ordinary ‘shares: of, 23 pence. This was the total. dividend, for the-year. Dividends have grown. by-an average annual
rate-of 5% over recent years, but' year-to-year growth has been-as high as 10% and as Iow'as 2% during individual
years.
The shares are currently quoted_at.370 pence. each, and the loan stock. at CU104 (per GU100°nominal). The
company's corporation.tax:rate-is 21%.
Several, of the .directors believe, that. the company is relatively low-geared. and there :is talk ‘of making a
substantial‘loan:stock.issue during the:forthcoming year.
Requirements.
(a) Determine: the company's WACC, ignoring any possibility of a further loan: stock ‘issue. All of your
‘workings should be clearly explained and ‘you. ‘should justify. the ‘weightings: used.
(6 marks)
(b) Explain any reservations you ‘might have .about ‘using the figure determined in (a) for ‘assessing all
potential projects during the forthcoming year, still. ignoring any possibility.of the loan stock issue. (6.
marks)
(c) Explain how, in ‘theory and in practice, a possible loan ‘stock. issue would affect ‘the validity of the
WACC?determined in (a). (5 marks)
(17 marks)
28: REDSKINS:LTD
Redskins: Ltd is a holding- company: owning shares‘in’ various subsidiary companies, Its directors.are currently
considering: Several projects to increase the-range of the business activities undertaken by Redskins Ltd and
its subsidiaries, The directors: would like to use: DCF techniques in their‘evaluation of these projects but'as yet
no ‘weighted average cost:of capital-has been calculated,
Redskins Ltd has an authorised share capital of 10 million.25p-ordinary shares, of which 8 million have-been
issued, The current éx-dividend market price per ordinary share-is CU1.10. A dividend of 10p-per sharé has
been paid recently. The company’s project. analyst has calculated that 18% is the most appropriate after-tax.
cost of equity'capital.
Capital Structure information for both the group and the holding company are-given below.
Redskins [itd Redskins
and.subsidiaries Etd
0000. 00000
[8560 37816 capital. 2,000 2,000
Share premium 1:960 1;960
Reserves 3,745 708
Shareholders’ funds 7:705 4,668
‘Non-controlling interests. 895 Nil
3%.ittedeemable debentures 1,400 =
9%.tedeemable debentures 1,500 1,500:
6%. loan. stock 2,000 2,000
‘Bank:loans 1,540 600
All debt-interest is payable arinually and, all, the current year's payments will, bé made: shortly. ‘The: current.
Cum-interest-market. prices for-CU100 nominal, value stock are CU31.60 and CU103.26 for the 3% -and 9%
debentures réspectively., Both thé 9% debentures and thé 6% loan. stock are redeemable at par in ten ‘years’
time. The.6% .loan-stock“is not traded on the open market but the analyst estimates that its actual-pre-tax cost.
is 10% ‘per annum. The bank loans bear interest at 2% above base rate (which is currently 11%) aid. are
repayable:in six years. The effective corporation tax-rate of-Redskins Ltd is'21%,
Requirements
222 | ‘Financial Management

(a) Calculate the: éfféctive after-tax, weighted average cost of capital as required by the directors.
(8 marks)

(b) ‘Discuss the problems that are encountered in ‘the estiniation, of a company's weighted average cost’ of
capital when
0). bank:overdrafts
01) convertible loan stock;
are-used as-Sources.of long-term.finance., (6 marks)

(০) Qutline-the fundamental assumptions that are:made whenever ‘the weighted average cost of capital of; a.
company is used.as the discount_rate;in net present value-calculations. (6 marks)

Note. Ignore personal taxation. (20 marks)

29. GALE LTD

Gale Ltd (Gale) is an information technology‘services company listed :on the: London Stock Exchange, which

‘is looking. to expand ‘its. operations into the provision of ‘self-service: point-of-sale systems for supermarkets

across Europe. The company has.grown-rapidly in recent years with annual:dividends having seen consistent

growthvas follows:

20X5 ‘20X6 20X7 20X8 ‘20X9
10.00p. 12.00p 13:50p 14.50p 15.75p

The company expects dividends ‘to continue to grow for the foreseeable future in. line with. this recent

dividend profile..Extracts from the company’s most recent.balance sheet at 3:1 May 20X9are set‘out below:
(0000 01000
গোয়া 10659 14,000

5.5%, CU] .itredeemable preference. shares 10,000

Retained earnings 19,400

Total equity 43,400

7% irredeemable debentures (at nominal value) 50,000

6% unsecured loan notes (at-nominal value) 36,000

Total non-current liabilities 86,000

The current.ex-dividend ordinary:share price-is CU3.50, whilst the current:ex-dividend preference;share price:

is CU0.77. The: irredeemable: debentures have ‘a current ex-interest market -price of CU86.50: per CU100

debenture, whilst the-unsecured loan notes have a current.ex-interest market price of CU84 per'CU100 loan.

note and'will be redeemable at par in seven, years’ time. The company ‘pays corporation tax. at a rate 02102.

The company’s current!liabilities do-not include-any overdraft:borrowing.

Regarding the:company’s proposed expansion plans, the chief executive has.expressed his. preference:for, any

financing requirements:to come from.increasing debt.rather than.increasing equity in order to. move towards

minimising the-company’s weighted-average cost-of capital.

Requirements

(a) From.the available information calculate, using market values, the company’s weighted average.cost of
capital. (10 marks)

(b) Explain the.challenges that:Gale would face:in trying to calculate its weighted-average-cost of capital if CG}
overdraft borrowing. was' a permanent.feature of the.company’s:current liabilities and discuss how these টন)
challenges :might.be addressed in practice. A

(3 marks) টন

(c) Discuss the preference .of the chief exécitive for any financing. requirements to come from ‘increasing B
debt rather: than increasing equity in order to move towards minimising the company.’s weighted. R
average cost of capital. (8 marks)

(21 marks) "
Now go back’ 'to the Learning Objectives in. the Introduction. If you are. satisfied ‘you have achieved those 8
Objectives, please tick them off.

Cost of capital. | 22:31

ATSwGrs to linicrneiive qmesiions
‘Answer to Interactive question'1
(ay 10596 = 8% 20.2 or 20%
RP 25
(৮) 12 99078) yg. OS* 14 Lg 1 0.32 or 32%
P, 25
CUu0.3
. OS
(0) Pye Pea ecu
K
(0) Po = Do(1+ 9) _ £0.3x1.05 =CU3.15
K,-g 0.15-0.05
‘Answer.to Interactive question 2
MV (cum div) = CU2.20
MV (ex div) = CU2.00
kg Do --20 5. 1000 = 10%
*- 0200
‘Answer to Interactive question 3
ky = ০-120-05) 0.05 = 12.2%
4.75
‘Answer, to Interactive question 4
Data.is available for the:four years to 20X4, so:
100(1 + g)* 2145
. 145
14592 দম ০০০
(1+8) 100
Lag eae = 1,097

Thus compound growth, g’='9.7%
The cost of equity is k, = a +95 a + 0.097 = 24:8%
Answer.to Interactive question 5,
Growth rate? g = rx b where:
221] | ‘Financial Management

CU25,000
a _ €075,000 i”
(i) b= % profit-retained:= = 33%
+: 7 ঢা profit after tax
(ii). r= return-on-investment: SS পা
Opening.net assets
CU75,000
‘CUT,060,000-CU25,000 oo
= : ১: 100% ='7:2%
(iii) _g = 0.33 x 0.072 =:0.024 = 2.4%
CU50,000(1.024)
300,000XCU1.35
Thus k,.= ne +, the-costofequityis 40.024 = 15.0%

Answer to Interactive question 6 রর
12% preferenceé;shares:-dividend is 12%, x nominal-value
P cul15
‘Answer.to Interactive question 7,
Using r= Wterest 2 90% = 15%.
D. ০৮32: 00.2
Thus return required by debenture holders:is ‘15%.
The COstito.the company is calculated by reference-to‘the ex-interest. market price;:so:.
a= Interest (1—T) 0121 - 0.21) = 11.9%
D cu92 —£12
Answer to Interactive question 8
Using trial and error
DF PV DF PV
CU @ 5% CU @ 10% CU
tO (98) 1 (98:00) 1 (98.00)
tl =t5 10 4.329 43:29 3:791 37.91
5 105 0.784: 82.32 0:621 65.21
27.61 5.12
TIRR.=5 + 2761 _ (10-5) =11,14%
27.61-5.12
Post-tax:cost of debt = 11.14:(1,-.0.21) = 8.8%
‘Answer, to Interactive question 9,
Firstly'we-need to decide whether‘or'not-the-loan.stock will be converted in five’years. iC}
To do this?:we compare the expected value: of 40;shares in five years" time:with’the cash alternative. A
We aséiiine that'thé MV of shares will grow-at‘the-same rate-as the-dividends. RP
MVisharé in five years = 2(1.07)° = CU2.81 i
Therefore MV of. 40 shares =-CU11:2.40 R
Cash alternative: =CU105
Therefore all loan stockholders will choose the.share conversion. 1B
To find the:cost to the company; ‘calculate the.IRR 01016 cash flows.
‘DF @ 5% PV DF @ 10% PV =
CU CU €U
TO, (85) 1 (85.00) 1 _ (85.00)
T1-5 8 4:329 34.63 3:791 30:33
TS 112.4. 0:784 88.12 0.621 69.80
37.75 15.13 -
Ea

IRR =:5 + _ 375 _ x (10 — 5) = 13.34%
37.75-15.13
Therefore the post-tax.cost to the company'=: 13:34 x (1 — 0:21)-= 10.54%.
‘Answer, to Interactive question 10,
Wit ০ (eu . 8৪০
WACC = (£2m x 15%) + (tm x 6%) = 12%
2m +m
2261 | ‘Financial Management

Answers 03 SdliHiest
1 a Dolla),
F
g =bxr
= 0.2:«.0:15
Dy = 0.8°x:CU125,000
ke 2 125 x 0.8:x:(14+:0.15x 0.2) +015 x02
1,500
= 9.9%
k.-9
@ দা
0.4 x 15%
='6%
P= “°180,000.x1.06
° 0.2-0.06
=.CU1,362,857
ও Current’ex-div price = Cum-div price-in.one year's. timex TELA
1+k,)

=CUI.20 x —
1.2
= 100p
Current dividend. =10p x ———
(1+.g)
Current cuini-div price = 109p
in
Where'theré, has been a scrip issue‘the dividends per share-in the calculations must be adjusted.
‘Dividend per:share 204 — = 16:67p

20X7 — = 22:61 0
22.67 == 16.67 x (1 +g)" [৯
22.6) v
g = jo <1 8
= 10:8%
ke - 22.67 (1.108) +0.108 8

= 16.4%
5 চু = D,(1+9) +9
. Fy
Cost of capital. | [22:74

10% = 3(1+9) + ge

g #403
~ 43
6 g =4 — -1
30.00
= 6.95%
kg = Do(1+9) +
= 39.25%"1 .0695 +0.0695

= 12%
7 g =br where b is‘the-retention-rate and/r is the return on reinvested funds
_ 1:60.
3 556
-:3.696
ও দল br, where béis the:retention-rate and-r'is the:return.on reinvested funds. Opening.net assets:cannot be
calculated, therefore-using.closing:net assets to calculate:r.
_ 2.50: 1.20 x 2.50: 500,000
2.50 6,000,000
= 10.8%
চু 1.20%1.108 +0.108

=.27:42%
9 yg = 4960+610 -1
= 12%
x = Dolt#9) 4g
P, ,
- 80142 949
4,000 x3
='20:96%
=21.0% rounded
10 116 growth:rate. should-reflect the trend‘in.dividend payments likely to continue<into the’future. Therefore the.
most.appropriate rate:= 10%.
চা g = br Wwhere'b-is the retention rate and.r is the return on reinvested funds. Opening net: assets.cannot-
be-calculated, therefore using closing-net assets 'to.calculate-r
- 1. 400
§ = Fx 7
“ 4 4,500
BB | ‘Financial Management

=. 2.22%
Time DF @10% PV
1-10 7 6.145 43.015
10 x 0.386 0.386x
To give. a 10%:return,.43.015°+.0.386x:= 100, 16 x = CU147.63, so the premium is CU(147.63 — 100) =
CU47.63.
13 ky __ Interest. (1—T)
, D
_ 10 x(1-0.21)

=8.8%
14. MV = £15
0.12:
=.CU125, based:on gross yield-and gross:interest
Therefore cost:to.company = 185x079
‘125
= 0:0948: or 9.48%
Altérnative:solution:
Assuming, irredeemable.debt, the cost to the: company:=:return.required by:invyestors less. tax shield on
interest, ie r x (1 —-t)= 12% x (1 — 0:21) = 9.48%:
15 k, (six months) = 4
PS » 82
= 4.878%
k,(perannum) =] 048787 — 1
= 9.99%
16: Cost of‘preference.share capital. = 0.06
| 0.65
= 9.2% টে
WT 1 _0.15x.(12%:2.25).4+.(8/ 92) (6.x 0.92) +:0.125.x:(1- 0.21).« 8 A
- (12x2.25) + (6.x 0.92)-+8 P
= 13.13% Vv
|
18 kg = 08001186200 —-T) for redeemable:debt standing at par‘in the market-and redeemable at 081,716 R
ky 513% x (1 - 0:21) (B
= 10:27%
k, =12%
k -=(Ek, + Dky)/(E +'D)
Cost of capital. | 22091

দ1010স CU2.80 x 12% + CU7im x 10.27%)./ (10m.x CU2.80 + 7m)
= 11.65%
19 k= 20
_ 24

120%
Interest (1-—T)
kg SS েযেজেছেচ্ছাযেজেজে
D
_ 6x (1-0.21)

=9.48%
kos Ek, +Dky
E+D
100m x54 :20 x 20% +2. 160mx0.5x 9.48%
400m %2-1.20 +2.160m x 0.5
= 15.79%
20 kg for redeemable: debentures-which are standing at: par in. the market and.are redeemable-at, par, is equal to
thé:couponrate legs-corporation tax, 16
kg 512% x (1 - 0:21)
=9.48%
k. = 16%
k _ 8 +Dk,
E+D
_ 15m x21.60x16% +.6mx 9.48%
] 15mxz1.60 +..6m
= 14.70%
2170 =CU7 million
E = 10-million x CU(1.55-— 0.09)
=.CU14.6 million
ky ল.13% x0:79
=.10.27%
চু = 9 *1-06 ৭6
1.55—0.09
='12.53%
2:30. | ‘Financial Management

k _ &x10.27% +14.6 x12.53%
~ 7+14.6
=. 1.1,80%
22 Cost of'capital «= =.
- 100
0.25
= 25%
Dividends per-share t,; — = 25p-+ £125,000
5,000,000
= 27.5p.
New ex-div value = 27.5
0.25
=CU1.10
New dividend per share’ ti = 25p— $00,000"
5,000,000
Cum-div = CUL.29
23 (a) Stock Ltd
Dividend one-year ago = 25p,
Current:dividend.(Dy) = 1.04:«-25p
=26p
Therefore current‘ex-div market. value = CU(I.98.—0.26).
= CUI.72,
per dividend valuation model (Gordon growth model) চু. লি eolT 9) +2

= 0.26:x 1.04 £0.04
= 0.197, ie 19.7%
ও
(b) Nails Ltd. Fa)
Estimate g.using‘earnings retention. model and. most:recent set:of accounts: A
Opening. shareholders” funds 20¥2.(CUm). = 1,585 - 99 নু
= 1,486 8
; wc _ 124 R
(r)‘return:on.investments:20Y.2 = —— x 100%
1,486:
= 8.34% 1B
Profits. retained 20Y2 =— x 100%

= 79.84% ,
Estimate of g = 0.0834 x. 0.7984. x 100%
‘Cost of capital. | 2:31

= 6.66%
per dividend valuation model (Gordon growth model), k, = ee +2
a
- 25(1.0666) 9 0666
0.61 560

= 0.145,-ie: 14.5%
Note:(1.+ 8) = 79 (per.historic dividends)
। pe".
ieg = 4J— —-1.
° 19
= 0:07]
Therefore k, = 26(1.07'1) 40/071.
341.6
= 0.1494, ie 14.94%
(c) .Equity cost:of capital
Using earnings, retention.model
Retained ‘earnings = CU(282,000 — 95,880):
= CU186,120,
Opening shareholders’ funds
_ cU282,000
“cu (3,711,120— 186,120)
=,0.08
Estimate of b = Retained earnings
PAT
_ 86,120
'_.০৮2৪2,000
2:0.066
.. Estimate.of ¢ =,0.08.x:0.66
=,0,0528
per dividend valuation model (Gordon growth model), ke= eee +g

MV ex-div: = (426,000 x CU:1.475):—CU95,880
= €U532,470
kos 298, 880% 1.0528 + 0.0528
032,470
=10.242, ie 24.2%
(d) Equity capital.
‘Using historical data
22.7
L+e 5. দা
018 5192
232} | ‘Financial Management

22.7
2. ee) সত
ore 192
= 1,034
an 23.4%
per dividend valuation model (Gordon growth model),.k, = oo) +g

= 22.7(1.034) + 0.034

= 0.104, te 10.4%.
(০) ‘Delta Ltd
MVxp = CU(6,587,100 —.619,300)
= CU5,967,800
To estimate g, assume: that.the:growth.rate has been constant:in-spite of.20.Y.1 looking odd.
; 619,300
T+ লে 4 = গল
048) 520,000
(619,300,
এ ষ্ঠ লক 1
(520,000.
= 0.045, ie:4.5%
per dividend valuation model (Gordon growth model),,k,= eae +g

- 819;300(1.045) 9 945
5;967,,800
= 0.153,.J¢ 15.3%
(f) Oz.Ltd
Need to estimate g.from past.dividends.
The trend can be.established by considering:the period:from.20X1 (02008.
., Estimate:of g is 2
[1,190 A
7J2-** _1 = 0.10:
610 P
v
Per‘dividend valuation model (Gordon growth-model) rE}
D, R
k= — +g
FS
To estimate D1. use the.20X8:dividend and apply'three years of growth. 8
2D, =1,190'x 1.1?
= 1,584 (CU'000)
1,584
So = —— +01
Ke 22,630
Cost of capital. | 233]

= 0.17, i¢ 17%
(g) Debt:capital
Per CU100 block of' debentures
Annual, interest (gross) = CU8
‘Market value = 0085
Cost of debt = Interest (1— I.)
D

= 0.0744, ie 7.44%
(hy Corporation. tax.
Per:CU100. block of ‘debentures
Interest
Market value = —————__—_
Required return
_ 07.50
0.06
= CUI25:
For the company.
Cost of debt = Interest (I= TL)
Market value
_ 7.50 x 0.79,
© €U425
_©U8.925

= 0.0474, ie 4.74%
Note.. For.irredeemable débentures'use the short-cut:
Post-tax cost = (1 —T.) 'Pre-tax cost.
ié Post-tax-cost of debt = 0.79 x 0.06
= 0.0474, ie 4.74%
0) Debentures
First, establish. the:market' value (calculations based on a-CU100 block.of debentures).
Discount.the flows received by an investor at the required rate:of return.
Time: Flow 10% discount factor Present value
৫২৪1 CU
t1-8 7 5,335 37:35
18 100 0.467 46.70
84.05.
এ Market:value-of CU:100 nominal:= €CU84.05
For the company, the‘pre-tax cost of:debt:is the IRR ‘of pre-tax flows.
Time Flow 7% df 7%.PV 10% df 10%.PV
CU CU CU
to 84.05 1 84.05 1 84:05
2:34 | ‘Financial Management

tig (7.00) 5:97]. (41.80) 5.335 (37:35)
tg (100.00) 0.582 58.20) 0.467 (46:70)
(15.95) 0.00
-.IRR = 10
Post-tax cost of debt: ='10'x. (1. — 0:21) =7.9%
0) Convertible debt
First find, the current; market value. ‘To-do so, we:must decidé what:cash flow-to include at the date. of
conversion., The sharé value (0095) represents futuré cash flows :discounted. at the required, rate of
feturn. This ‘is ‘therefore not .a8 attractive as the cash dltémative of CU100, All rational, investors will,
Hence take:the cash.
For the:investors:
Time Flow 5% df 5% PV
CU CU
t1-2 6 interest: 1.859 11.15
t2 100 cash 0.907 90.70,
‘market value= 101.85
(The above figures are based on a CU100 nominal block:of debentures:)
For 'the-cost of:capital- we must-find the IRR. of the cash flows: for the company.
ও
fo
A
—P
v
8B
R
P
Cost of capital. | 1235)

Time Flow 2% df 2% PY 3% df 3% PV
CU CU CU

ty (101.85) MV. 1 (101.85) 1. (101.85)

tia 6 net.interest 1,942 ‘11.65 1.913 11.48

ty 100 cash 0.961 96.10 0.943 94.30

“IRR =2%+ 9-90 (3 = 2)% = 4.99%

5.90—3.93
Post-tax cost of debt-= 4.99 x (1 —0.21) = 3:9%
24 FIZZERS LTD
(a) Cost-of. capital calculation

‘Cost.of.equity (K,)

1১১২ ২১ 0;(1+8)

Using:the dividend:valuation model.(Gordon, growth, model), Ke = a +g

Assuming that:dividend growth over the:last:five'years is:a good indicator of shareholders"expectations

regarding:the future:

gs 25.5 =] = 3.71%

21.25)
Thus:.K,.= 25.5 (sees + 0.0371 = 12.25%
335 — 25.5

MV of shares:=.57,500-x:3.095 = CU177,962,500

(00500100001 0103)

The.Kg will.equal the IRR.of-the cash flows from the company's‘ perspective,

The debt will be redeemed in one year, soit‘is possible to calculate the cost exactly,

Consider.a bond with nominal value CU100.

‘Timé Narrative Cash flow Discount-factor Present-valué

0 MV (ex int) 92.72 1.000 92:72

1 R:+ Interest (109.00) 0.851 (Bal) (92.72)

The-t = I.discount’figure:is KG ‘which must equal 0.85.1 to:give a NPV of zero.

+ ৫:
Thus 1 +:K 1 1.1751, giving pre-tax Ky = 17.51%
. ! = লজ = 1, 1, giving: -tax’ =1li5l%
d 0.851 & 8 P d

Post-tax’ cost of.debt.= 17.51 x.(1 — 0:21) ='13.83%

‘The MV of the debt = CU.100: million x 92.72% = CU92,;720,000 ex interest:

WACC

‘The WACC normally includes: long-term. finance only. In, the: case of Fizzers: Ltd the debt: is to be:

redeemed in one year's time. Thus. the-debt;should only be.included in the WACC if it is assumed _ that

more debt -will raised :in the near future to replace. it. (If not, then, the WCC is the cost-of equity of

12.25%.)

WACC:# (12.25 177.96 + 13.83 x 92.72) = 12.79%

270.68

‘The assumptions made above are‘justifiable:for the following reasons.

e Past dividend. growth has been ‘reasonably’ steady, so ‘it is likely that shareholders will expect
similar‘in‘ the future.-It is'their expectations that determine the:share price. Growth of 2%:in 20X8
and 20X9 might be a better.estimate for future:growth than ‘the five year‘average.

12:36) | ‘Financial Management

০ 60403 existing gearing ratio (debt:equity).is approximately 1:2, which seems:reasonable.
Because debt has: some advantages eg ow costs of issue, tax, relief on -interest, ‘no dilution of.
earnings per share (compared to:say.a rights issue), some.gearing is advised, so-it-is-likely that'the
directors ‘will. seek to raise more’ debt in the future. Whether they’will aim for exactly the same
gearing-ratio and use debt with the same:cost:is less certain.
(b) Suitability
The WACC has been calculated to use! as a discount.rate' for appraising the new overseas ‘venture. To
use the existing WACG:relies onthe following assumptions.
© Gearing is kept constant.
০ The: project has the'same business 1191-35 the:company's‘existing. activities.
© The:project;is small.
The figure-calculated.is not suitable.for the following reasons.
‘© —- Tt is ‘implied that the project-will.financed out of retained cash reserves. This will not preserve the
‘current gearing:of the:company.
e The: overseas. venture involves a different market, with. different ‘systematic. risk to the bulk of
existing’ activities.
০ The project‘is a major undertaking.
(০) Three types:of bid
Adkantags Disadvantages
Cash. ® —‘Fizzers has'plenty’of. cash © —_ Depending:on the value. of Zoom,
more.cash:may have to be found
০ There will be no dilution of control
in Fizzers e° Zoom:shareholders.lose their
interest.in,the business
© Zoom shareholders-recéive a certain.
sum
Shares © — Fizzers' liquidity is preserved.Cash © _ Issue costs of new shares
‘Surplus can be used.elsewhere
০ —_ Dilution of-control:for.Fizzers’
¢ :Zoom:shareholders keep.an interest existing shareholders
in.the enlarged firm
Loan.stock e ‘No dilution.of:control for Fizzers' ০ = ‘Obligation'to pay interest
shareholders: CG}
e Increased. gearing: for Fizzers HI)
° Fixed income:return ‘may appeal to A
Zoom: shareholders RP
কী Tv
25 THAMOS LTD 8
(a) Cost.of:capital calculations.
(i) Dividend growth. model (Gordon growth model) ‘
D,(1#9) 8
ko os 00048) 9) +g
ঢু :
‘MV = EPS x PE ratio ;
= 35.8p'x'28
= CU10.02 (per'share)
‘Cost of capital. | 37]

g = 411+4.86 -1
= 22.7%
1,002
= 24%.
(ii) Earnings retention model.
ike = Do(t+ 1) +1) বাট
Ey
This.is:similar to the dividend. growth model except: that; instead. of basing the estimate of. future
dividend growth.on an extrapolation of past.growth, the formula g = rb is'used, where
r= Return on_reinvested funds ARR
. EPS= Dividend
b= Retention rate-=. ————_———_—
EPS
20X2 20X3 20X4 20X5 20X6
% % %, % %
ARR | 15.6 15.6 17.4 18.5 18.8
Retention rate 70.0 70.0 70.0 70.0 69.0
10. 10.9 10:9 12,2 13.0 13.0
Thamos, Ltd has maintained a constant payout ratio-over the-five-year period. However, its, ARR
has-incréased from 15.6% to 18.8%. On the assuniption that the most recent results ate likely to
provide the best basis for a calculation, of ke, a. growth estimate of 13% 15: 0520 in the ‘following
calculation.
k = 41x 1.13 +0.13
1,002:
= 14.2%
(b) Underlying assumptions and their effects
‘The calculations in (a) produce estimates of the. cost: of equity of Thamos Ltd. which, are. markedly
different. The range. of 14.2% to 24% is: more than.can be ascribed to:rounding errors. At least part 01
the difference is.attributable-to:the:assumptions underlying the models.
Both, the dividend growth model and the earnings retention; model are. based ‘on the belief: that the
current:market valuesis the:discounted present'value:of the future dividend stream, ‘ie
py = Dolt#9)
kK, -9
A strong. theoretical ‘case can, be made for this model. However, few practising: financial managers
‘would be prepared to. accept it totally. ‘Most. would believe that other. variables, such as‘ the underlying
assets and short-run.reported profits, have-an.impact.on share. prices..Neither ofthese is:incorporated in
the’basic dividend:model..
The-second ‘assumption.common to both theidividend growth,model and the earnings retention model:is
that dividend growth will be constant:in perpetuity (although the method used to estimate this figure:
differs). “This‘is unrealistic; particularly. where companies have. achieved. high growth rates in.the recent.
past.
Thamos: Ltd has ‘achieved.an average:compound growth rate: of .22:7%-over. the last four. years. Except’
under conditions of very high ‘inflation it-will not be possible: to ‘sustain. this growth ‘rate-indefinitely.
The-assumption that what:has happened ‘in. the past will continue in.the future:is naive.
The-earnings.retention. model is based. on the.belief that dividend’ growth is a function of: the proportion.
‘of earnings. ploughed back into: the: business ‘and the 1806 of return earned on. those reinvested :funds.
Again, in. order to. predict future growth, it assumes that’ the values ‘of both variables will. be constant:
through time: As may be:seen in (a) Thamos has maintained a constant payout:ratio but,this has been
made-possible by an.increasing ARR. The ARR cannot ‘increase indefinitely; indeed, ‘it will probably.
not be possible:to maintain existing levels:in the future.
2:38) | ‘Financial Management

Both, models depend on a -humber of 83511111015, that may not ‘be reasonable. The constant growth
formulae. aré likely to be more reliable: in, estimating ke for similar risk Companiés than they are for
individual securities. They ‘are’ likely to be particularly unreliable. for companies with high. or'unstable
historical growth. rates,
(©) Why-:managers'need ‘to know k,.
A primdary-task of managers is to make: decisions. A decision entails a choice between alternatives.and
Sich a-choiceé:¢annot 66 made without-an-idéa of the objective to be achieved. Most-of the:conventional
theory iin;financial management is based on the belief that the objective ofthe company‘is to:maximise
shareholder wealth, ie to maximise 00210011010 market.valie.of the ordinary. shares, Stated as baldly as
this, the-assumption may seem unrealistic.. Very few chief executives of companies would.publicly state
that in their decision-making they’ were exclusively concerned with the: maximisation of shareholder
wealth,
However, it does seem:reasonable to suggest that all, executives are. extremely concerned about share
prices. if only in that, if they were-allowed. to fall, too:far below. what could be achieved, the company’
would lay itself‘open.to‘a takeover bid.and the.executives' jobs could be in jeopardy.
If managers are: keen to increase;share prices they must know what determines share prices:;The: price of
a share, like: the price of everything else, is a function of the: demand and supply. If managers: are: to
increase the price of their shares they must. stimulate demand. ‘To: do. this through, their investment:
decisions they must take those investment opportunities: that:investors. would like the company. to take.
‘This ‘should make the company popular: people will_buy and.the share:price. will rise.
‘However, how are.managers:to find out which. projects would existing and, potential investors like them,
to. undertake? Within a perfect market the manager can assume that investors -are satisfied. with the
return they are earning. If they were:not, they would sell the shares, depressing'the price.and increasing:
the return-‘until they were;satisfied.
‘The-cost of equity‘is the-rate:of return .that,.existing.and potential investors require.in order. to persuade
them:to invest in,the shares: of the company:.If managers accept only those projects which pay-a return.
‘in excess of that required by: investors, they-are entitled :to assume that they are. accepting the projects
that investors; would. like.them to accept. This should stimulate:demand, resulting in an-increase in the
share price.
‘The:conclusion is. that managers need to know the ‘cost of equity-of their companies inorder to make
investment decisions, ie:in:order to.determine. the net'present value of prospective projects based:on the
shareholders’:required rate of return..
26 OSMIN LTD
(a) Calculation of: weighted average cost of capital
Definitions
k = Weighted average cost-of capital
k.,='Cost of equity capital
ky = Cost of debenture capital
k, = Cost:of. bank.loan
E='Total,ex-dividend market value of-equity
D = Total. ex-interest market value of debt.
L=Total-value of:outstanding bank loan ৪
(i) Calculation of k, EY)
Assuming an underlying dividend growth of g per annum, the average growth rate between 20W7 A
and 20X1 is;given by নু
01+8* =13.6+10 EI
= 136 R
(+g) = 41.36 “
= 1.0799 8
g = 8%
Assuming that. shareholders take. past. dividend growth asa reasonable approximation to: future L
dividend growth, then using the.dividend growth.model,
‘Cost of capital. | £239)

FS
_ 13.621 .08 +0,08

= 18.88%
(ii Calculation of kg.
ky is the discount; rate which equates the: present. value of future income: (CU8 per annum): and,
redemption (CU100) to the-current:market price (CU82.50).
Time Flow DF‘@: 10% PV DF '@ 15% PV
14 8.00 3.170 25.36 2.855 22.84
4 100.00 0:683 68.30: 0.572 57.20
0 (82.50) I (82.50) | (82.50)
11.16 (2.46)
By‘linear interpolation
ky = 10+ ডেল 15410)
11.16 + 2.46)
= 14.10, say 14%.
(iii) ‘Calculation of cost of. bank loan
The-current.cost of debt is:taken.as the best:estimate ofthe: future:cost of debt, te 16.5%.
(iv) Calculation of:weighted.average:cost of capital
k = k.E+kD+kL.
E+D+L
_ (4.05% 18.88% + (0:66 x.14%) + (0:9x 16.5%)
4.05+.0.66 + 0.9
= 18%
(b) Assumptions underlying the use of.k.as a discount rate.
The weighted. average cost of capital should only’ be used as the target: discount: rate for appraising
investment. opportunities whose‘acceptance will not alter the weighted average cost:of capital.,
Since the cost-of. any type.of capital.can be’regarded as:a function of ৪1191066182 8110 a.risk premium,
this implies that k ‘should ‘not be-used to evaluate: opportunities which have significantly different-risk"
‘characteristics from the average'risk‘borne by the company'prior to:acceptance of the project.
Tn this context:itis useful to separate’ the total.risk of the company:into business risk. and. financial risk.
The. business risk is: the-risk‘inherent in. the nature of the. company’s operations.. The financial risk is'a
function of. a company's gearing. For-a project to be evaluated using k; its acceptance must not:alter:. the
‘company's’ overall business’ risk nor‘must it alter the. financial risk. ‘Therefore, it ‘must be of. a similar
nature to existing projects and:it:must be:financed in such.a way that:the gearing ratio is unchanged.and
hence the financial..risk is unaltered. In practice: k may 8190 be used ‘to evaluate small or marginal
projects whose.acceptance is’unlikely to alter overall corporate risk.
The ‘situation outlined.in the:question' is:such that the: project being considered could.hardly’be: thought.
‘of as ‘marginal. The cost of ‘the project (CU2:5 million) is approximately half of the existing market:
‘value: 01 the company. In. these circumstances k could .only be: used ‘as a target discount rate if its
business:risk’ were the:same as that of. existing projects and it’were:to be financed in the same’ way as
existing projects.. This is unlikely to be the case, and‘as a generalisation it is probably unwise to use the.
existing’k to evaluate such a‘major investment.opportunity.
(c) Practical.problems:in estimating k for a large: Bangladeshi listed company
The.problems of estimating k can be considered.under four. headings.
(i) The validity of. the:model.
240) | ‘Financial Management

The: estimation, of k.and, in particular ke is based on 006-858010000108 6 value of an ordinary
share is the discounted present'valuc.of the.futurerdividend stream. It is possible.that the market:is
using.a different:method of yaluation, eg based on an-earnings multiple; if this is the case, validity
of the k, calculation is undermined.
(ii) The estimation of the.variables in the model
‘Here-again'the major problem is.in the estimation of k,. To-calculate k,:it isnécessary to’know or:
estimate Dy, Pg and. 8, Of these only Dg can be: determined with confidence. Py is the-ex-dividend
value: of the share"but, for the-model to give an accurate estimate 06৬ the market value must. be:
in equilibrium, In:practice the market value of an, ordinary share may fluctuate daily and it'may be
extremely difficult'to estimate-its equilibrium: value..
If establishing: Py is a problem, then éstimating g-is harder still. Two approaches are frequently
used, one 08960 on past dividend growth, and,one using. the Gordon, growth model. In-using past-
‘growth rates an average must be calculated and there: is always the danger that: the. average ‘is
misleading. In. the question the average ‘dividend. growth of Osmin over. the past: four years has
been 8%, although in. the mostrecent year dividends, have not.grown, at-all. To what-extent is the
average growth a. meaningful, figure? Furthermoré, it must*be remembéred that the growth factor
‘in the dividend valuation ‘model is anticipated future growth. Even where the average of past
growth ratésis meaningful, the-use-of the average dssumes ‘that-past. growth rates: will be:sustained
in'the future.
The: earnings retention model. is. based, on the belief ‘that: future dividend growth depends. on, the
‘volume of earnings retained in the.businéss.and thé rate of return earned on-reinvested.earnings.
The-estimate of. g is. given by
g=br
Where b =the current retention-rate:
r =the-current return on capital-employed
Even 8০০০০018016 naivety of the model. and its limitation to pure equity companies, it will only
give a-useful approximation to g where the-retention rate and.the-rate of‘return-are stable.
(iii) Fluctuations inthe value of the variables through time
Once the basic rationale fora discounting: approach to.investment appraisal has been accepted (ie.
both the magnitude and timing:of cash, flows are relevant), it, is:incumbent upon the company to
establish ‘an.appropriate-discount rate: The WACC.model.is a reasonable start to determining the
appropriate rate, notwithstanding the obvious difficulties in its application. In practice,.a check on
the calculations can be made by comparing: the ‘result with the WACG-:of similar companies and
with the: risk-free rate‘(the:return,on government:stock).
(iv) Problems:associated with different:sources:of finance
Tir part (a) a,calculation. was :made:-of the WACC. Osmin:is financed entirely by debt:and ordinary.
‘share ‘capital, and the: procedure for .calculating. the: WACC is: straightforward. However, in, IC}
practice. many ‘firms ‘use: other sources ‘of finance, which, make the computation ‘of WACC: more [1
difficult. A
‘Specifically, ‘a company may have: unlisted preference shares’ which present problems of Tv
estimating their market value; the: estimation of the true .cost of convertible loan ‘stock. :is Ey
‘notoriously difficult as: the calculation. requires an ‘assumption:about whether.or not the option to R
convert’ will be:exercised; where:a company has.substantial foreign:currency loans, fluctuations in
the exchange rate add a new dimension to the estimate of their cost; and, finally, substantial ‘off
balance sheet' finance in the-form of lease‘agreements creates further difficulties. P
‘Cost of capital. | 241

27 CROWLANDS LTD
(a) Determination of WACC
Cost-of equity:
Dividend valuation:model,
k, = Dott 9) ,
০০0.2 ).0:
_ 0.23(1+ 0.05) +£0.05
cu3.70
=0:115 or 11.5%
Cost of debt
Time CF 5%:factor PV’ 10% ‘factor ‘PV
1-2 12.0 1.859 22,31 1.736 20:83
2, 100.0 0.907. ‘90.70 0:826 82.60
9.01 (0°57)
9.01+.0:57
Post-tax: ky = 9.70 x (1 —0.21) = 7.66%:
(220:x.3.70).+ (1.04 100)
= 11.06%
The market value weighting was used since, for whatever purpose WACC is needed, it has to be the
opportunity cost. 'This'is’the value iat: which the: company could.raise.additional. debt or equity. and also
the price at which debt or equity could be redeemed.
(b) Reservations about using WACC
Possible problems with ‘using: the WACC calculated above 83 the discount. rate for all of the projects
assessed.by the company in.the’forthcoming:year include the following.
৩ ‘There is considerable doubt.about the.future dividend growth rate. The past:rate.is not‘steady, ‘soit
‘is very hazardous to:make: the assumption that was ‘made. The problem is that if-we' do not make
this assumption, we shall have to make another assumption, equally or more‘dubious.
° A major determinant-of the appropriate discount rate. for, a particular project is the business risk of
that project. Sincé not.all projects have:the same:risk, the discount.faté should not be thesame.
e Changes in the:level of gearing would affect the weightings::taking‘on positive NPV projects will,
of itself alter the gearing.
* — There could.be-other sources of fuiids.that have-not.been-consideréd,.eg:a bank overdraft.
০ ‘The:current market: values: 01 the shares and 006:1081). stock. feature 111,006 calculation, both of. the:
individual costs of capital and:of WACG. Any change in, market values would probably-alter the
WACC.
৩ Changes in the tax.rate could.occur-over the.lifetime of the projects,
These points: need to. be-developed and.explained.
(০) The effect on WACC 003 loan stock:issue
In‘theory according:to Modigliani and Miller, (with, taxes), ‘the loan, stock-issue should lower WACC.and
incréasé shareholder wealth as the Value: of ‘the additional tax relief is effectively transferted ‘from. the
Treasury to the:shareholders.
Risk (financial)-will increase as thé existence of. greater, fixed return commitments would have'the effect:
of making returns to sharéholdérs:more ‘variable, without;any alteration.in, business risk. Taken to high
levels the:tisk:of bankruptcy could. adversely. affect:share prices-and lower.shiareholder value, ultimately
to.a greater extent-than the tax:relief would inérease it:
212 | ‘Financial Management

Otlier practical issues include the following,
৩ = Clientele effect
o —_-Ageincy issues
° Availability of taxable profits
০ Signalling
These points would have to be explained and developed.
28 REDSKINS:LTD
(3) Post-tax weighted average cost of.capital
The.following calculations are based on the-capital structure of the.Redskins group, whichis deemed to
be.more ‘appropriate for. determining a discount.rate to evaluate the projects available to Redskins Ltd
and its subsidiaries.
Cost-of. debt.
(1) ‘For‘irredeemable stock*ky ল ___Interest(1-T)
Ex.-int erest market: value
cu, 14a:
Cost of 3% irredeemable stock = 23.00 x(4- 0:21)
«(31.60 -3.00)
8.29%
(2). For redeemable stock, to calculate kg it:is necessary to: compute 016 internal rate: of return of. the:
pre-tax. cash:flows.
Cash PV PV
flows at 5% at 10%
CU CU CU
Time.0 Ex-interest:market: price (94.26) (94:26) (94.26):
Time 1-10 Interest: 9.00° 69:50 55:31
‘Time:10 ‘Repayment of capital 100:00 61.40 38:60
Net: present. values 36.64 (0:35)
Pre-tax cost:of 9%-debt, ৯5% 4 (দর তওভ] 5% =:9.95%
36.64 +0.35 /.
Post-tax cost.of:debt:= 9.95 x (1.—0.21) = 7.86%
ও
(3). .Afterstax:cost ০৮801016380 = =(11% +'2%) x (1 — 0:21) tA)
= 10.27% a
v
(4) Cost of 6% unquoted,stock: 8
‘The-value-of'the stock.is the‘present value of:the:pre-tax cash flows discounted at 10%,
‘ie:(CU6:00. x 6.145) + (CU100 x 0.386) = CU75.47 1B
The:pre-tax'cost.is 10%
The-post-tax:cost is 10: (1 - 0.21)-=.7.9% :
Cost of equity-= 18% (given)
Cost of capital. | 243)

The values of'the various sourcés of finance are 39100110৬08,
CUu'000 CU'000
Equity 8000 ‘1.1 8,800
3% debt 1,400 x 0.286 400
9% debt 1,500-x 0.9426 1,414
6% debt 2:000 0.7547 1,509
Bank loan 1,540
ke (0.18 x8; 800) +(0.0829 400):+ (0.0786.x 1,414) + (0.079 x 1,509) + (0.1027 x 1,540)
8,800 +400 + 1,414 + 1,509 + 1,540
_ 2,008.7
= 14°7%
(b) Problems:in estimating k
(i) ‘Where bank overdrafts are used as sources of long-term.finance
Theoretically bank’ overdrafts are repayable: on demand -and therefore are current liabilities.
However, it is undoubtedly ‘trué that-many firms. tun, more or less permanent overdrafts -and
effectively use them.as a source-of long*term ‘finance. Where this is true, a case can. be made for’
incorporating: the cost of the overdraft:into the calculation of the weighted average-cost of capital.
In-order to do this it is‘necessary to know ’the‘interest:rate and the sizeof the overdraft,
The: first‘ of: these variables, the interest’ rate, presents no special problenis.. Overdraft rates are
known and the quoted rate is’the ‘true’ rate. As with other intetest paynients, overdraft.interest-is
an.allowable expense.for'tax purposes and this:must be incorporated in the-calculation. Interest on.
overdrafts fluctuates through time’ and this presents a problem, However, it is ict a problem
unique to overdrafts, as other‘interest-rates are also Jikely'to vary,
The: particular problem in incorporating the cost of an overdraft-into the WACC iis determining its
magnitude for weighting purposes, By'their very nature overdrafts ‘vary in sizé on.a daily basis. It
would bé necessary ‘to separate the overdraft into ‘two components. The first is the underlying
permanent. amount which should. be incorporated into the WACC,. The second component:is that
‘part'which fluctuates. on a.daily basis with the.level of activity. A technique similar to that'used to
identify the fixed and-variable-elements:of semi-variable costs could be used:to separate these two
component parts.
(ii) Where convertible loan stocks are wsed.as sources of lorig-term.finance
The-formula for determining: the:cost ofa convertible loan stock:k,:derives from the basic
valuation modél'for convertibles as.follows.
©. Interest(1— 1): MV(or RV
খত Splnterest(1=-7)_, MV(or RV)
নে 076) (1+1)"
‘Where T ল Rate of‘corporation.tax
n = Years to:conversion
MY = ‘Market value of:shares at the time of.conversion.(or redemption value if-not
converted)
k, = Cost of convertible stock:
V. = Market value of:convertibles
In ‘principle: the calculation of k, is a simple TRR computation. In. practice the: difficulty ‘is in,
knowing whether the: investor will. exercise his::conversion right, which will depend upon the
market: value of. the shares at the time of conversion. Therefore, to. compute: k, requires: a
‘prediction of future share prices, which.obviously poses severe problems.
(c) Fundamental assumptions underlying’ the:use:of k as:a discount.rate
1 can be shown that ‘ina perfect capital ‘market, in which the, market value ‘of anordinary share is. the
‘discounted ‘present value of. the future: dividend stream, ‘acceptance: of: a project. which has’ a positive
211] | ‘Financial Management

NPV‘when. 01500163002 WACC will résult in the-share price:increasing ৮গ016 amount ofthe NPV.

Itis this relationship between the NPV and the market‘value which is’thé basis of the rationale:for using:

the WACC in conjunction with the’NPV rule,

However, the usé ofthe WACC iin this way depends upon, a-number of-assumptions.

(i) The: objective: of the firm. is. to maximise the current market valué. of. the ordinary. shares. 1 the.
firm.is pursuing some other objective, eg:sdles maximisation subject to a profit constraint, some
other, discount rate.may be more:appropriate:.

01) The:market is. perfect and the. share: price is the discounted present; value, ৩0 the dividend stream.
Market imperféctions ‘may undermine the relationship between ‘NPV and the market value, and,
cast: doubt. upon. the usefulness: of WACC as a discount rate. Furthermore, if the ‘market values
sharés in some other way-(earnings multiplied by a,PE.ratio?), then the link will also be broken.

ii) The: current; capital structure will be maintained (otherwise the cost of equity and WACC. will
change).

(iv), The:project is ofthe same.risk:as the. existing activities (otherwise:the cost of equity and WACC
will.change).

(v) ‘The:finance for the:project:comes from a’pool:of funds and is not:project-specific.

29° GALE LTD

(a) Cost:of irredeemable debentures (market.value CU43.25m):

Ka= 7x(0.79)/86.50 ¥ 100.=6.39%
Cost’of unsecured.loan notes (market value CU30.24m):

Cashflow df10% PV 05% চর
tO (84.00) L (84.00). 1 (84.00)
7 6.00 4.868 29,21 5.786 34.72
t7 100.00. 0.513: 51.30 0.711 71.10

(3.49) 21.82

Pre-tax Ka =5+21 82/(21.82 +:3.49) x 5 = 9.31%
Post-tax.Kg = 9.31 x (1 -.0.21)'= 7:35%:
Cost-of irredeemable preference shares (market-value CU7.7m):
K, =5.5/77 x 100 = 7.14%
Cost of equity (market value CU49im):
Dividend growth rate = 10.00 x (1 +.g)*= 15:75
Therefore, g = 12%
K,.=(15.75 X: 1.12)/350, + 02:75 17.04%
WACC =:(43.25m x 0,0639)+(30.24m x 0.0735)+(7:7m x 0:0714)+(49m x'0.1704)/130.19m
WACC =:13,885,695/130,190;000 x 100-= 10.67%

(b) As bank overdrafts, are repayable on. demand, they are accounted for as current ‘liabilities. However, in °
practice for-many companies bank overdrafts are used.as a permanent, long-term source of-finance:. Tn such, A
circumstances, therefore,.it can, be entirely justifiable to,include: bank Overdraft financing costs ina WACC P
calculation.

v
In order to include such finance 11016 calculation, however, we need to know two things.— the-interest:rate: Ee}
(though fluctuating, not a.problem in the short term.—and an average of the.fluctuating-rate could reasonably R
be used) and the size of the overdraft. (Often problematic). We need to know the size of the overdraft: for
weighting purposes in the WACC- calculation, but,.by definition, overdrafts. fluctuate on.a daily basis, L
The way forward in such circumstances, would be:to analyse the actual operation of the-overdraft to.1dentify 8
the ‘core: permanent, element; of the fluctuating overdraft — it is. this core element, that can justifiably: be.
‘includéd:in.any WACC calculation.

(০) The rate of, return required on each source. of finance used by the company depends on its perceived-risk by °
inyestors:, Equity is perceived by investors as the most risky source of finance and, therefore, requires the

Cost of capital. | 2451

greatest return, whilst debt is perceived as less risky than equity, therefore requiring 310 61 rate of return
than equity.
In. the traditional ‘view of. capital: structure shareholders tend to be indifferent to the addition of relatively
small amounts. of debt'finance, and so the-view is that a company’s WACC will fall as debt finance increases
in the capital. structure. This line of ‘thinking: would appear to endorse the chief executive’s views. However,
if gearing continues to increase the cost of equity will, increase to include a-financial risk premium, whilst at
extreme:levels of gearing both the cost.of equity and the cost-of debt will increase to reflect not only financial
risk but'also bankruptcy risk,
In. contrast: to the traditional view, M&M, assuming a perféct capital market (no bankruptcy risk and no
taxes), demonstrated that a. company’s WACC remained constant as a company geared up, with the increase
in thé cost-of equity arising from increased financial risk exactly offsetting any benefits fromi,lower cost:debt.
in. the: capital. §tructure. WACC is therefore: viewed as. being constant at all levels of gearing. This line of
thinking appears to contradict the chief executive’s’ views.
However if the assumptions of.a perfect capital market aretelaxed, WACC iis seén,to-fall as gearing increases
due‘to'the tax, shield on debt: This.line of'thinking again appears to endorse the:chief éxecutive’s'views..
However, ‘in the réal world; even the benefits of ‘the tax shiéld can be more’ than offset by ‘the effects of:
incréased bankruptcy tisk at high levels of gearing. This line of thinking suggests ‘that’ whilst ‘the chief
executive’s views carty some weight, they cannot be adopted jin. the extreme and minimising the company’s
WACCis, therefore, about identifying the appropriate level of debt in the capital structure from the-investor’s
viewpoint,

216 | ‘Financial Management

অত সমস্ত যা না যাক হা যা দ্র Tyron coals eee pe eG oe, str Paitin) pa ic ice
SS i re ee eee eee ee
At eee ET ২ মটর ee : Leaf. A se Una LEP Wen Endl Rp bie Reese, or Be
as eg Sa par ead es cktct re Pare SARA, pga 10 Hd fos CALE erties” ৭ 2৮ ৭
be ss Sata (Sar সাম ate | ২০০ * Ne RD, CORRE SG ae ১৯১৮ মু me te?
নী সা re
ae SOM ARIE BE we Hasse Ie EIT BIT: = Tee Res ভেলে সস ane (Fae পেশ oo
| ie Peed ; Paes Ht ia met Pa সঙ্গে See SDS
Se fev 38 Bf: ed Pel et ig A ag Oath a3 2 gust ছি eRe তম দাত লও কল Cee ee রে ক নিতে
শপ iN ১ যা Aen eed ie NE A
ee Linas হত ee —— ao
Cg wo SOB il cy Abn ep rs oe ee
Capital structure
Introduction.
Examination.context.
Topic List
1 Capital structure
2 Modigliani,and Miller (M&M), 1958 & 1963
3. Capital structure‘and high gearing
4 Adjusted.present value
5. Gearing and the CAPM:
Summary and.Self-test
Answers to.Interactive questions
Answers. to:Self-test:
[=

Introduction

2 পৃ explain and illustrate what is meant by financial risk, রা
৩ To explain thestraditional view. of gearing
= To explain the'M & M_-view‘of gearing [
° ‘To outline the key aspects of capital structure নন
Syllabus:reference relevant.to this.chapter.is 11.
Syllabus links:
The theory behind this chapter :is seen elsewhere in this subject, and the practical. issues of capital structure: are
explored again:in advanced: level’and the final case-study.
Examination'context
Exam questions on this topic are likely to-require an.explanation ofthe underlying theory of capital, structure-and
then a.description-of any shortcomings of:the theory.and the practical issues: surrounding gearing.

54) | ‘Financial. Management

1. Capital 501010৫001-6

Section overview a
° Gearing normally-refers to the:increased risk faced by shareholders.as a. consequence:of borrowing. ঢা!
০ Gearing can be operating’ or financial.. 5
© Traditional view of gearing — there-is an optimal. capital structure.
‘1.1. Busineéss-and:financial risk’
|=] Definition: দা
[| Business 1151019 the variability in earnings: before interest and tax associated with the industrial sector in which a
-— firm operates.
1015 determined by general.business‘and economic.conditions.
Well-diversified shareholders ‘will only be interested in. risk that: cannot be: diversified ‘away, ie the systematic
element of. business:risk.(‘systematic business risk’).
(SA) Definition:
. (aia Financial risk is the additional variability in.returns as-a result:of.having.fixed interest debt:in. the capital structure.
a Equity holders. take this. risk.in. particular, but.debt holders also:suffer financial risk at.high gearing levels (see later
in-chapter).
NB Financial. risk ‘is :narrowly. defined here for the purpose of this chapter. A. wider definition of financial risk.
might include liquidity:risk; interest-rate risk, currency risk etc (see:chapters 9 and.10)
Operating gearing (or risk) is the extent‘to which_a firm's operating Costs aré fixed, as opposed ’to variable. Firms
with high, operating: gearing, eg Steel plants, oil refineries, have high break-even, points and earnings before-interest
and tax (EBIT) which are very sensitive'to changes in sales. Operating géaring is.linked to business risk.
Financial gearing:is the-extent to which debt is used inthe capital structure. This can be measured in.two ways:
০. Capital terms-(normally by ‘market:values*)
debt or debt
equity debt +equity
* Where:no market values are available then book.values should be.used. For the purpose ofthis exam the
book’value‘of debt.is to be taken as its total nominal’value. Either of these expressions is acceptable.
© ‘Income terms using :interest-cover:
BBIT
Interest,
Note: .For the:purposes of ICAB Financial Management, preference shares: should be ‘treated.as debt. for gearing
calculations.
(3 ‘Worked example: Demonstration of gearing |
। A company‘has CU40m of: debt,on which-it pays 59271067650, The company's expected results are-as; follows:
ক CUm cUm
Sales 10
Variable:costs 2
Fixed:costs 5

Capital structure: | 255)

EBIT 3
Ignoring tax, show’the effect‘of the fixed costs'and the interest cost‘on the‘volatility of the:earnings, and the interest
coverif sales
(a) Decrease by 10%
(b) Increase by 10%
The following shows an abbreviated statement for-a financially geared firm. before and after a 10% decrease: in
sales and:a 10% increase ‘in sales:
Sales{bcforc) Decrcascd|sales} Increascd|salcs)
রর Before Comment ; After: Comment _ After.
CUm CUm CUm CUm CUm CUm
Sales 10: — 10% 9.0 + 10% 11.0
Variable.costs 2 — 10% 1.8 +10% 2.2
Fixed, costs 5 no change 5.0 no.change 5.0
(7) (6.8) (7:2)
EBIT 3 — 262/3% 2.2 +.262/3% 3.8.
Interest (CU40m, @ 5%) (2) no change (2.0) nochange (2.0)
Earnings before tax 1 —-80% 0.2 + 80% 1.8
Interest cover 342=15 2,2-- 2.1.1 3.822=1.9
Conclusion. Returns are enhanced when sales: increase but the: position:‘is reversed when sales -fall. ‘Financial
gearing affects the volatility of equity earnings and, therefore,, requires a premium to be reflected in‘ the. cost. of
‘equity.
This can be seen in-the 26°/,% change.in EBIT and the:80% change: in earnings before tax.created. by only a 10%
change-in-sales.
1.3. -What:happens.if gearing changes?
As a company gears up financially two things happen:
SMV e +k
ar
. ‘ এ
০ k, increases due to the increased ০ The proportion of.debt-relative to
financial risk equity’ in the capital stricture
an i ap: increases’
০ All else equal, this pushes up the
value of WACC e = Since-I< k, this pushes down the
value of WACC, all else ‘equal
The effect of increased gearing on the WACC depends on the relative-sizes of these:two opposing:effects. So how,
precisely,.does the gearing affect the WACC and, therefore, shareholder wealth?
1.4: Traditional'view of gearing
The traditional view is:that-as an organisation introduces debt into its capital structure, the Weighted average cost:
of, capital will fall, because initially ‘the benefit of cheap debt finance more than outweighs any increases in,the
cost of equity required to compensate equity. holders, for higher financial risk. Initially, there’is very little change in
the:sharéholders" required .returns.,
As gearing continues ‘to increase, the equity holders will ask for progressively higher. returns and eventually this
increase. will start to outweigh the benefit: of cheap debt finance, and the weighted average cost of capital will.
256) | ‘Financial. Management

rise. At extreme levels of gearing the-éost of debt-will, also start to 1152 (as debt holders be¢ome-Worried about the
security of their‘loans) and,this will also contribute to-an incréasing weighted average Cost of capital. টে
Conclusions A
© There :is an ‘optimal level of gearing at which the value of the: firm's equity. plus debt. is maximised.. This P
occurs.at:the:point where the: WACC:is minimised (This is‘shown:in the diagram, in 'section:2:3, below) Tv
° There is no precise ‘niethod of calculating k, or WACC,, or indeed, the optimal capital. structure. The latter’ cE
needs to be'found.by trial and error by changing the gearing and seeing how the market responds R
০ The above conclusion applies equally. to situations either, with or without.corporation tax :
° If simplifying assumptions are made (ie: that bothiinterest.and dividends are constant: perpetuities and debt‘is 6
irredeemable), then
MV; +MV> = earnings (1— T) —
WACC.
Given any 560 of earnings, if the lowest’ WACC is maintained, projects will have: the highest NPV (at the
lowést:discount'rate)-and shareholder wealth is.maximiséd
2 Modigliani and: Miller (M&M)'1958 & 1963
EE Section overview
৬১১ ০ In a.no-tax world, there.is no optimum gearing level.
© ‘nd taxed World debt is a'tax efficient’way to financé a business..
In 1958 and ‘1963 M&M published papers: on capital structure which.were at odds-with-the traditional approach.
M&M showed jin 1958’ that: with no corporation-tax there is:no advantage for firms’ to issue debt (gear up).
Gq Worked’example:‘Capital structure (ignoring effect of tax)
A conipany generates EBIT (earnings before interest’ and tax) of CU100m. It currently‘has. ho debt:in the capital,
Structure, 1015 considering the-use of debt, and is exploring‘raising CU800 million or CU1,800 million, Interest'is
payable:at-5%,
Requirement.
Ignoring: taxation, and. assuming all earnings after interest are. paid out: as dividends,, find, out: which, is the. most
attractive capital.structure.
Solution:
The total returns to all investors:needs to be calculated.
CU1;800m
No debt CU800m debt debt
CUm. CUm CcUm
EBIT 100. 100 100
‘Interest (CU800m @ 5%) - (40)
(CU1,800m. @ 5%) (90)
Dividends 100 60 10
Dividends + Interest 100. 100 100
The total distributions to providers of ‘finance are the same, no:matter:what.the.level.of. gearing.
Capital structure: | [25714

Thus.thesé firms should be worth,the saine in total, as they generate‘the same:total. distributions for investors with,
the same business risk’.
M&M showed in. 1958 that:
value: of debt value of equity
+'value:of equity in equivalent
‘in geared firm ungeared firm
The implication is.that the. WACC‘is constant:no matter’ what the gearing level.
This ‘suggests. that.there:is zo. optimal level of gearing. The benefits of. cheap debt finance. are exactly offset by the
increased returns required by shareholders for the. extra financial risk:— the cost-of equity ‘rises in.direct proportion,
to theincreased gearing.
Inthe traditional view ,it was felt that at lower gearing. levels the sincrease in required ‘return. was less than,
proportional. The result-of-this isthat.under the traditional view the WACC-falls-at-low gearing levels.
2.2 M&M 1963,
M&M showed in 1963 that, in the presence-of corporation tax, itis advantageous for firms to issue debt (gear up).
‘2 Interactive question 1; Capital structure with éffect of taxation
= (Difficulty, level: Easy],
The same;situation as in.the Capital structure worked‘examplesabove, but:this time corporation tax is payable at
21%.
CU1,800m.debt
‘No debt CU800m.debt
cUm CUm CcUm
EBIT 100 100 100
Interest — (40) (90)
100: 60’ 10
Requirement.
Which, capital structure is most. attractive: in ‘terms of total.amount paid to investors, taking into. account the: tax
payable?
See. Answer at the endof this chapter.
2.3: Conclusion:
The effect-of interest: being allowablé against tax: means 'that- geared ‘companies pay Jess tax: Thig means geared
companies: will have more cash to pay-out-to investors, and-theréfore-are. worth:more. The: optimal ¢apital structure
is theréforé a.geared:one.
More formally M&M showed.in 1963, that:
Vy = Vy + DI
258} | ‘Financial. Management

‘value:of debt value of-équity tax’ shield on debt where
“value of equity in equivalent Tis the corporation tax টে
in geared firm ungeared.firm rate-and D.is the’market FA)
value:-of the-geared A
firm's debt RP
v
The implication is.that the: WACG:falls as:the gearing level.rises. R
Here the benefits of the tax relief'mean that increasing amounts of .debt: reduce the WACC and this‘ is /ess than.
offset by the increasing:returns:required.by:shareholders which push'up the WACC, ie overall the: WACC:declines. B
This suggests that the optimal.level.of gearing ‘is nearly 100%:debt:
The implications of increased debt: causing the WACC ‘to rise-due to additional geating has implications for how TT
debt financed investments are:asséssed. This:is explored :in section 4 on Adjusted Present Value (APV).
Capital structure: | (259)

, _ cost of equity in:
Cost:of' ky k, ‘= ‘ungeared’firm
capital: {(réflects' business
% পা tisk oily)
; : নন ‘cose Of equityiin
ke TT আট ice geared firm
TM a *: (reflects: business
- and.financial risk)
k, = cost°of-debt
. optimum Gearing:
Market
‘value Fh pasate tcc d cts ৯৭৭01
£. The-traditional view of gearing
|
7 MV; “My,
0 : Gearitig
Costiof ky
capital
9 =
a IM&M 19580051001
Ike k lol
tk;
Gearing.
‘Cost of রর
capital’ ee ,
a ~ iM&M 1963:position:
Ak
0: Gearing
260) | ‘Financial. Management

3. Capital ’structure 3110 11121) 20311116 8

দেল Section overview a
Ez
10 ° High. gearing as ‘advocated by M&M has some problems with it; there being bankruptcy costs, agency costs Tv
and tax exhaustion. [৪
° Managers can act.in. ways which prefer shareholders to.debtholders and so increase bankruptcy:costs. R
০ _ Lenders:use loan covenants to protect their position. :
6)
3.1, Problems'associated-with high levels of gearing’
A brief. examination of company balance. sheets would reveal that: in. reality companies do not use 100% debt ———
gearing levels. The reasons for-this.are usually-categorised as follows:
(a) .Bankruptcy-costs
(b) Agency costs
(c) Tax exhaustion
3.2; Bankruptcy costs:
The basic: M&M with-tax equation is
Market value of the firm = Value.if all-equity’ + Value.of the
financed tax shield.
As firms take on, higher levels of gearing, the chances of default on, debt repayments, and ‘hence: liquidation
(‘bankruptcy’), increase... Investors ‘will, be-concerned over this and sell their holdings, which will cause the value of
the company's securities to fall, witha cortesponding increase in the firm's cost of funds. To optimise capital,
structure, financial nianagers. must’ therefore: not increasé gearing beyond the point where: the cost of investor
worries over bankruptcy outweighs the benefits: gained from the increased tax shield.on debt.
Thus the M&M équation.can be written:
Market-value-of the:firm = Value if all-equity এ Value:of'the _ ‘Bankruptcy.
financed tax.shield, costs
1015 not bankruptcy in itself that is the problem but the costs that accompany it. ‘These: costs may be.categorised;as
follows..
Direct:costs of. bankruptcy
° 103 firm is liquidated, its assets aré usually sold at: less than ‘their going-concer, value. Liquidation costs,.
redundancy costs and distress prices for‘assets can all lead‘to assets realising less.than their economic valué
° These. costs:mean-that:the company's going concern. value: will be greater than:its: winding-up value. This loss
in:value-will often'be. borne by: the:debt holders in the:event:of bankruptcy.
* 0 compensate for this, investors in both. debt and equity will ask. for higher rates: of return. from highly:
geared companies and thus drive:down 016 prices for their securities
Indirect costs of bankruptcy
These costs can be-suffered by companies that-eventually go bankrupt or by those that: hover close to bankruptcy
for manly years. They relate to the-problems of operating a conipany under severe.financial distress.
Capital structure: | 26 1|

জে Interactive question 2: Acceptable debt levels: (Difficulty. level: Intermediate],
[86 Jethro Ltd has’very high debt levels, well.over what'is considered:normal for 00015-0906 of company, and‘has:had for
. anumber of years. There are likely 00 be:implications:for many‘of the stakeholders:
Stakeholders Wier avo dhe inpieations?
০ The managers:
০ Asset replacement
০ ‘Key employees
০ Suppliers
6 Customers
০ Ability-to:enforce contracts
See Answer at the end-of this chapter.
3.3: Conflicts between shareholders and debt holders
There are ways,in which managers (appointed by shareholders) can.act in the interests of the shareholders rather
than the-debt holders and in doing so, contribute to the indifect-costs-of bankruptcy,.for. example:
০ Paying large:cash dividends will realise ঢ81001016 company's value for the shareholders at the expense:of the
debt holders
° Managers may try to.hide:the extent:of a firm's poor financial state by-cutting back-on.research,.maintenance,
etc and thus improve’ the results of ‘this year’ at-the expense. of those of. ‘next year’. This “playing, for, time’
tactic can worsén a.debtholder's position
oe Management: may negotiate a. loan. for a relatively safe investment. project: offering good ‘security, and
therefore carrying only. modest:interest:charges, and.then use the funds.to.finance-a far.riskier investment:
° Management: may’ arrange further Joans. which, incréase ‘the risks of the initial lenders by undercutting their
asset backing
1015 probably fair'to say-thatsmost: managers do not actively set out to deceive:lenders, as they have little to gain. —
after all_most-of them are-émployees rather'than owners and may suffer considerable personal loss if-their, company
goes bankrupt 038 often not easy for the financial director of-a failed firmi‘to ‘find similar employment elsewhere).
In, addition, they know that, although these tactics nay be to the short-run gain of the: equity ‘holders, they:cannot
expect’to. win, in the long run:—one may deceive a.lender once but:it is doubtful ifthe deception will work 38 second
time.
Nevertheless, 1005 because: of the risk’ that:managers might act inthis way that most loan agreements (sée Chapter
4) contain-restrictive Covenants for protection, of the lender. Complying with such covenants places a:festriction on
the actions of managers and,imposes a potential additional cost-of borrowing.
These restrictions on the managers or agents are:féferred,to as agency costs.
20621 | ‘Financial. Management

'3:4. Loan covenants
Covenants used by. suppliers of debt finance-can be divided into:four main.categories: °
e [০5001000115 on issuing new debt: a
These. usually prevent the issue of.:new debt with ‘a superior claim. on ‘assets unless the existing debt ‘is T
upgraded to have the same’ priority, or unless the. firm. maintains a. ‘minimum prescribed asset backing. B
Restrictions on/asset rentals, leasing, and sale and leaseback are also often.used. R
° Restrictions on dividends
Dividend growth-is usually:required.to be-linked.to.earnings. Repurchase ‘of equity:(effectively'a dividend)-is 6
also often restricted.
০ Restrictions on merger activity
Debt covenants may prohibit:mergers unless‘ post-merger asset backing of loans is ‘maintained at a:minimum.
prescribed level.
০ Restrictions-on investment policy
Covenants employed include restrictions on, investments in, other companies, restrictions on, the: disposal of
‘assets, and requirements for. the maintendrice of. assets. This ‘ig usually considered to ৮6 the most: difficult
aspect for creditors to;monitor.
Contravention ofthese agreements will usiially:result in, the loan becoming immediately repayable, thus allowing
the debenture holders ‘to restrict: the size: of. any. losses. Obviously no set of covenants can completely protect
creditors, and any temaining risks‘will ০৩ covered by'the intérest raté charged and by securing loans on, the assets
of thé company.
A further disincentive to high: gearing is that the firm must be.in 4 taxpaying' position to obtain the. tax shield on
debt. At.a certain level-of gearing companies will discover that they have.no taxable income left-against which to
offset interest charges. This is particularly likely if they have been.investing heavily: and are: in receipt of large
capital allowances. After. this point firms will experience all the problems of gearing but‘none of the:advantages.
The effect of the:risks and costs of bankruptcy, the agency costs ‘and tax.exhaustion.is likely ‘to push up both the
cost of equity’and the cost‘of debt.
The Conclusion is that the WACC is likely to be 88101 shaped. and ‘that’there is now an optimal level of- gearing,
but.no easy way'of determining where it-is, In-other’ words, the:traditional view.
The next séction looks at some of the factors which détermine the-amount-of gearing a.firm should have.
3.6. Practical ‘aspects.in'the.capital structure decision
In.addition to the.above: points, the.following practical aspects'apply-equally to the traditional‘and M&M. theories:
০ _ Business.risk
Gearing: adds ‘financial. risk on top of business. risk; hence the higher the business’ risk (including operating
risk), the lower.the gearing tends‘to be
০ =©3>=6 Bankruptcy
Bankruptcy costs (legal, ‘administrative, accountancy, forced sale Of assets at less than imarket*valuie) havea
higher’chance of.being:incurred the:higher the gearing
০ Quality of assets
Lenders look ‘for security: thus firms with substantial, tangible assets (land, buildings, plant-and equipment)
tend to be able‘to borrow more:
০. Availability of other sources of finance
Small firms ‘may ‘have limited access to: external ‘finance: and are forced to-use equity (eg-retained earnings)
rather than borrowings’
০ Cost of.raising finance
Capital structure: | 263]

Issue Costs are zero ‘for retainéd earnings, whereas new issues (including: righits) are much: moré expensive.
Loan:finanée is cheap‘to raise:
° Tax rate.
The higher the-tax:rate-the:higher the tax relief:on interest, subject to tax:exhaustion.
The above aspects ate depicted in the diagram below
Cost of
capital
i
‘Optimum "Gearing:
— at Depends on রা
0601118:9705-00 be Gearing. tends*to, 06
lower ‘if factor is ‘higher if factor. is
‘Higher “<—————————._ Business (and ——————————__ LoWerr
operating). risk:
Higher «Bankruptcy. risk 6. Lower
Low: taxable profits’ <———__ Tax ‘exhaustion পচ taxable. profits,
Intangibles ¢-. Asset quality, —» Tangibies,
Little ক Access to debt ————————> Lots’
finance:
Zero for retentions .¢—'Ilssue’ costs —————_ Cheaper for debt
; ‘than new issues:
Low ¢— Jax:rates._. ————». High
In,addition the following should be borne.in:mind:
০ _—_ Signalling
Raising debt could be taken. as a sign of confidence by investors, 16 the directors are sufficiently confident
about-future ‘prospects that they are willing:to expose the business’to fixed capital and interest payments
° Clientele:effect
Particular, shareholders (a ‘clientele’) may be satisfied. with the existing level of gearing of a firm-(eg:in the:
context of their wider portfolios of.investments)..A change in. the level may not suit them and they may sell
their, shares.. Equally the change in gearing may suit new investors who. would want to buy the-firm’s shares.
The net effect may be.adverse, ie the-wealth of the original shareholders may fall.
264 | ‘Financial. Management

‘4 Adjusted'present-value: 8
oS Section, overview &
ei ° In a with tax world, M&M_arguéd that changing the:capital structure. may cause the-cost- of capital to-alter. নু
০: 015০0110060 with new“debt.can be evaluated.using the Adjusted’Present Value:(APV) technique.. |
০ APV-— Find the-base.case NPV @ 10৬৬ R
— Adjust forthe present value of the tax shield @-pre tax cost-of debt
‘4.1, Changing capital‘structure |
(0) 110918০0-০১87011019:-001311818 gearing L
। Spears: Ltd is currently an 311 ০0010 company. It is considering: borrowing a significant-amount to finance a.new,
project: The-new project is-similar;:in-terms of business risk, to the-existing. projects.
(a) What: will, happen to the company's cost-of capital?
(b) What.cost:of capital should be:used’to assess the:new project
(i) ‘The:existing:cost of capital?
(ii) ‘The:cost of the.new debt?
(iii) The new WACC?
Solution’
(a) The increased level of gearing:may cause the-overall WACC to fall, due:to.the tax shield on the-debt interest.
(b) The company's existing cost of capital (the cost of equity k,).1s inappropriate, as the new gearing will have
altered it.
The cost.of the new debt:is not the correct:discount:rate, because: the cost.of. debt:does not:reflect the: risk: that.
will be borne, by the shareholders.
The new WACC iis difficult tovidentify, for the’following reason:
WACC = Kee # Ka Va
MV, +MV,.
One component:of the: above is the market*value-of the shares (MV, ‘in. the above:equation) — which-reflects.
the‘impact:of both’the new debt and the project.
The impact of the’new project on.the’share value is‘its.NPV — the value of the. shares should. reflect:the wealth
created by the project.
The NPY requires the: new’ cost of capital (the new WACC) to be:known,
Thus. there is a problém.- to ‘find the new cost of capital requires the new’ market value of the shares, this
requires the’ NPV to be. known which in turn requires the.new cost:of capital.
4.2; ‘Adjustedipresent value,
The Adjusted Present Value (APV):approach can be used to address the:above: problem, in the:following way:
1. Calculate a base case value of a ‘project using 12৬, (cost of. equity for an ungeared: company), this gives: the
value of the project as if:it were ungeared
2. Establish the. present value-of the tax shield arising: as ‘a result of the debt capacity. generated by. the-project.
The appropriate discount rate‘for the tax shield is the pre tax cost of debt.
Adding:these two together gives an Adjusted Present Value (APV) which should be‘interpreted in the sameway as
an NPV. For example, 'a positive value for:the APV indicates an increase in shareholder wealth, and so the project
should go ahead.
Capital structure: | 2651

ey Interactive question 3: APV_ (Difficulty. level: Intermediate],
Le Toes Ltd, currently all equity financed,, is-considering ‘a project which will involve‘investing CU240:million.now’
. and will.generate:annual post-tax net‘cash.flows of CU40 million: for each of:the:next 10‘years., The: project will-use.
buildings and equipment which, when used «as security, ‘will enable Toes ‘Ltd to borrow
CU187.5 million-at arate of 8%. The: costs of issuing the debt are CU1 million. The debt will-last as long as the
project: 10'years..
Corporation tax-rate is 21%.
If the project were to be funded entirely by equity, the:cost.of capital-would be 12%..
Requirement
Establish whether Toes.should go ahead with the project; by:conipleting thestable-below.
ডিমে কে |
ঢা0]15008896:0856?
Value of:tax. shield?
eo Interest charge.
০ Tax.reliefiper annum
° Present value-at:pre tax.
cost.of debt,
Adjust-for the issue cost
See Answer at the end:of this chapter.
The technique is based upon the-assumptions: of M&M with;tax. That mean that igsues:such as agency costs.and
financial.disttess may-affect the attractivenéss.of debt: finance:which ate notreflected in this;technique.
5. Gearing‘and'the CAPM:
লো) .
Section overview
LES
e Revisiting CAPM again briefly, the B,.(beta of equity):is sensitive not-only to the amount of:systematic.risk’
but also to the amount of financial.risk, ie the level of, gearing:
IB Worked example: Gearing betas
. What happens to‘the required return, on a share if the Company‘takes on more debt?
What are‘the:implications of this for the-beta value?
The relationship between.the. required return.on.a share. and the.level of:gearing 1s as:shown.in the graph:
26601 | ‘Financial. Management

রা : ke
_
Required’ oo FA}
Return a A
= PA
- v
_ cE}
R

Gearing
The reason the required return goes up-is because-as a company borrows more, the-risk’that'the shareholders ‘face
will increase.
It:-follows’that'a geared company's shares will have-a higher beta.
This is’ because frriancial. risk applies systematically ié it cannot.be diversified.away.
In the CAPM. the B..rises as. gearing increases: (Debt can also have a.beta.such that the:required.return is greater’
than the-risk free,rate. For simplicity.in what:follows it is-assumed that:debt is.risk.free and_its beta:is zero.)
The assets of-a business contain only systematic business risk.which:is measured.by B,-(asset beta). In an ungeared.
firm this-must:be the.same as By (there'is no financial_risk). But, as gearing increases:the B,:increases, such. that Be>-
B,. One: way:of relating B,, B, and the level of gearing (assuming.risk:free-debt) is:
D(1-*
B.=B, (1+ ০077)
E
where:D:and E are the-market values:of debt:and equity respectively, and Tis the.corporation. tax:rate.
One particular use.of this‘relationship is' deriving’discount rates for project appraisal which.take account of both the
systematic risk 00160101601 and the financing risk.
While the CAPM ‘is a.less than perfect theory,.it is.robust-enough to.be widely'used ‘in the-real world and.certainly
adequate ‘for the examination. ‘Thus @ risk-adjusted :discount. rate. based on the systematic risk:of‘a project: can be
devised.and used.to-derive the project's NPV, in-order’to determine. whether 01011001019 acceptable.
| re) | Interactive question’4: CAPM [Difficulty lével: Intermediate]|
. ie Hubba’ Ltd, an all equity financed food manufacturer, is about to embark on a major’ diversification into the
consumer. electronics industry., Its current-equity beta is 1.15,'while the:average.equity beta of. electronics: firms:is
1.6. Gearing-in the. electronics ‘industry. averages 30% debt, 70% ‘equity by market values. .Debt-is considered ‘risk,
free.
T= 25% T= 10% T= 21%
Requirement
Estimate’ a suitable discount rate:for the’ projectiif it were’ financed
(a) Entirely’by-equity
(8) By‘30%.debt, 70% equity (by:market values)
(c) By40% debt, 60% equity (by market values)
See: Answer at the end: of this chapter.
Capital structure: | 26714

১৮1111113170431701১0140031 |
Summary,
(Cray)
Alar cearing/riskaaae
Sam Businesswitluhighoperating gearingimaysbequnsuicablelforhighy
financialfgearing’
= Businessestmay,attractishareholders) becausevof; 07911893145
= siiherelativeycostsiof raising. funds.
, = Debtifinancesrelativelycheapy !
all Ssuingscebucould|be:cakentasratsiemtoficonfidencelbyg J
2081 | ‘Financial. Management

Self-test:
Answer.the following questions: |
AI If for a given level of activity a firm's ratio of variable costs.to fixed costs’were:to-rise and, at the.same time, a
its ratio-of debt'to-equity were to fall, what would 02016 impact on the firm's:financial and operating:risk? T
2 A tax-paying: company is financed in equal ‘proportions ‘by equity and debt. The: interest. on,.debt. is tax cE
deductible at the corporation tax-rate of 21%. R
What will be the effect of an increase:in the rate-of corporation tax on, the-value of the company?
ও An-extract-from the-balance sheet of. Jug.Ltd:is as:follows. 6
CU
Ordinary:shares of CU1 each 3,000,000. ——
‘Reserves: 11,000,000
‘Total equity 14,000,000
The:current. market value:of the-shares,is-‘CU8.
The ¢ompany also has .in :issue CU16 million of débt; which you can assume to be risk-free,. which is
currently valued.at-par,
The equity beta of. Jug:is 1.20.
‘The company proposes’to issue.new shares:to. raise: CU4 million in.order to pay off some of. itsidebt. The: tax
rate is.219%.
Assuming:there aré no‘transaction costs with issuing-the new sharés.or redeeming CU4 million of-debt, what.
should:the equity’beta of the company be after the:capital restructuring?
4 A company is considering ‘a new project that would earn cash profits’ before tax-of CU5,000,000:per annum
for three years. Tax is at the:rate.of 21% of-cash profits. The:cost of the project’ would. be. CU7,500,000 and.
the finance would be obtained by-obtaining a. three year loan. at 10% ‘interest, for which annual repayments
would be as follows:
Capital: Total:
End of year repayment Interest payment
CU'000 CU'000 CU'000
a 2,500 750 3,250.
2 2,500 500 3,000
3 2,500 250 2,750
Loan issue.costs' would be CU100,000. The:loan would. significantly alter. the.company's gearing. 109: current
weighted average.cost.is 12%, but.if‘the company were all equity-financed, its cost‘of capital would be 13%.
What.is the adjusted present:value ০076 project, to the:nearest.CU.100,000?
§ SORINA LTD
Sorina. Ltd. has always been an all. equity financed company with a. cost’ of. capital of. 15%. The’ finance.
director, Mr Brush, has read an. article. extolling ‘the benefits of: raising debt-finance: and. has asked ‘you to
provide him with advice. as to how Sorina Ltd should finance itself. for the future. ‘He is also interested in
what discount rate he should be using. for-project appraisal. In order to assist: you Mr Brush has: helpfully
collected data on four.companies which is summarised below.
Debt : Equity. Ex-div Dividend
Company ‘ratio share price per share
P. 0 CU1,00 12p:
৫ hl CU2.00 36p
ও 1:3 CU3:00 58p
Capital structure: | 269)

For 8800 of thesé companies the dividends have’ been constant-at the above levels ‘for many years.. Companies
P-and ৫ Operaté in thé same-industrial séctor, while-companies R and.S.both operate in a:different industrial
‘sector‘which is perceived as more-risky'than that of -P and Q.
‘All four companies and Sorina. Ltd itself-operate:in Widbergia, a country that.is at present a.tax-free society.
You also ascertain that debt, which may be. assumed to be-risk-free; is currently yielding. 6% per annum to.
investors:,
Requirements
(a) ‘Comment on.theidata supplied by Mr. Brush in.relation to:the‘optimal capital structure of Sorina Ltd and
advise onan appropriate discount rate:for. project-appraisal. (8 marks)
(b) Indicate. how your advice. might, change if corporate taxes, were introduced, into Widbergia.
(5 marks)
Note. Your answer'should address’ both theories of gearing. (13 marks)
6 THEMARINERS CO LTD
The Mariners.Co Ltd is, soon, to be incorporated. Its promoters ate:considering five different possible capital
structures for the new company. An analysis of comparable companies with equivalent business risks, has
been undertaken. This analysis shows that iftthe before-tax cost-of, debt is, a.constart: 10% irrespective of the
capital structure, then the-cost of equity capital after corporation tax’ will be:as follows.
Gearing ratio Cost of equity
(debt-capitalfotal capital) capital.
%. %
0 20.000
20.0, 21.625:
‘40.0, 24.333}
50.0. 26.500
60.0. 29.750
The:above predictions for the-equity. cost-of capital also assume that the earnings of the.Mariners Co Ltd will
be taxed.at a’rate of 21.% and.that the debt interest is an allowable expense: for tax purposes,
The promoters expect.that:the company’will generate a constant annual earnings stream before the:payment
of-debt interest for the:foreseeable future.
Requirements
(a) Calculate. the effective after-tax weighted average cost of capital foreach of the five. possible. capital
structures, assuming’ that’the before-tax annual cost of debt will be a constant. 10% (irrespective of the.
capital structure:chosen). (5 marks)
(b) Interpret’ the. ‘results of. your calculations: in (a) ‘above: and. explain. their significance in financial
management. ‘(4 marks)
(c) Discuss the’possible consequences to a.company. of having a:capital structure containing-a high gearing
ratio. (11. marks)
(20 marks)
7 ADAMS,.PARLOUR & VIEIRA
Adams, Parlour & Vieira Ltd is a leading hotel group interested in expanding its activities. It is. planning: a
néw flagship hotel which, will .require:an additional capital injection.
The potential cash inflows from this. investment would ‘be CU5m indefinitely from. an initial investment. of
CUS50m, CU25m of-which would come:from.new debtifinance —the balance from, internal funds.
The company wishes to, use the adjusted present -value technique to determine the financial viability of the:
above..
270) | ‘Financial. Management

Relevant information
(i) The:company;s existing WACC.is 10.5% iC)
Gi), ‘The:ungéared cost-of capital for this.sectoris 11.06% 1
(ii) “Taxation;is currently at the rate of 21% A
(iv) The loan to fund the investment‘ will attract an interest rate. of 8% নু
Requirements [৪
(a) Calculate the Base. Case NPV, the: present, value of the tax shield and therefore. the. adjusted present: R
value ofthe proposed.investment: (4 marks)
(b) What-is'the true WACC for the.above: project? 6
Explain why.the company’s existing WACC is:not:the.appropriate-discount.rate. (4 marks)
(c) What:are:the shortcomings of the: AP-V approach? (4 marks)
(12 marks)
8 QUIGLEY INDUSTRIES'LTD
Quigley Industries Ltd-is a listed manufacturer’ whose’ principal product.is 'Qboard'. Qboard is widely used in
the: building trade, particularly in residential ‘properties. The. company: has several manufacturing: plants in
Bangladesh, Qboard ‘manufacture.is ‘a highly capital intensive activity: The company's other products, which
account for only.a small part of revenue‘are also supplied to the. building trade.
Recently demand. for Qboard has been very: buoyant. and the directors Nave decided ‘to open. a..new
manufacturing’ plant ‘in Staffordshire: to supply the local. market .and ‘save: on. transport costs. A net. present
value assessment of. the projected plant: shows’ a substantial. positive outcome: The cost ‘of establishing’ this
plant:will.be significant:for the company, representing about ‘15% of:its.current stockmarket‘value.
The company‘is financed,.by:a combination of equity and loan stock. Since the:company’s ‘funds are.all tied up
in-operations, establishing the:new plant:will require-that.the: company. raises additional finance..The.directors
generally. have:open. minds on the source or:sources of finance.
You are the company's finance director and have’ had séme conversatioris ‘with your colleagues, when. the
following’ points were made.
Director'A
‘This 1s not.a good time-to be issuing equity. T have. a:small;share:portfolio of: my own and_T'plot the-monthly
prices of.each share on gfaphs. J.have done this forsome years now and 1 can tell you:that the-patterns clearly
show that'we are heading for a, major downturn,in-share prices..If we went for equity’finance, by the time that
we could get: it organised ‘the bear market would be with us and we would.néed to issue a Jargé: number 0
shares to raise‘thé necessary cash."
Director B
‘We must pay attention to financial gearing. If we.get that wrong, the stock: market will probably savage our
share price. By the way, are-we. going to make the:financing decision without,outside advice and.are:we. going
to handle thé practicalities? If not, who.is going to do it for us?!
Director C
‘People only seem. interested. in equities these: days;. the: evidence all shows that average: returns are higher
than you, get from lending. We'll struggle to raise loan finance.’
Director D
‘Everyone-seems to be talking about external finance, but-I'm-not:so sure that it's necessary. We: make good.
profits:and:have ‘done for some time; can't we use-some of the retained earnings for this?’
Requirement
Draft notes for the directors, addressing the whole.question ofthe financing decision,, as well. as ‘picking: up
01600111035 raised by the:directors. The notes: should ‘use: language that you’ expect the directors to understand.
and should explain any technical.terms: (18 marks)
9 WEBCROFT-LTD
Webcroft.Ltd is a listed company that has a-number of subsidiaries operating: in the civil engineering: sector.
The company is currently financed by a‘mix of debt and equity and the company’s current.debt/equity ratio:is
expected to remain: constant ‘for the foreseeable future.
Capital structure: | 2:71]

The ‘finance director of Webcroft Ltd has been approached by the company accountant at one of its larger
subsidiaries, Webplant Ltd, in connection with a potential investment of CU]5m in a:new cement pumping
machine.that would be-rented out'to construction companies.
The finance ditector‘has. started work on. a-discountéd cash flow analysis of this potential investnient and is
currently considering the rate at Which.to discount the estimated after-tax’ cash flows. of the investment. The:
company accountant has suggested using the cost of the group's debt’ finance, as it has already"been agreed
with. the parent company’ that if this investment ‘were: to proceed,. it would be financed. wholly by debt.
However, the finance director is: conscious that the.company's normal policy-is 00 use the weighted.average
cost of capital (WACC) as the.discount:factor in such.calculations.
Atthe presentitime;-the capital structure of the:company.comprises:
180m CU0.50 ordinary shares 90
6.2%.redeemable debenture-stock: 60
Revaluation reserve 36
Retained earnings 39
The:company's:ordinary shares are:currently:quoted ‘at:a price of 250p:per share-and the‘debenture stock has-a
market' value of CU98' per'‘CU100 nominal value. The prevailing corporation tax rate;is:21.% per. annum and
this rate is‘expected to be stable for the.foreseeable future. The company:recently paid a-dividend of:20p per
ordinary share. This compares: with a dividend of 18.69p per share paid in. the previous year and 17.47p ‘per
‘share paid ‘the year, before that. Interest. on, the. redeemable debenture stock ‘has: also recently been paid.
Annual interest. payments are due at the-end of each:of the:next,three years and.all of the debenture. stock: will,
be:redeemed,in cash at a 5% premium at the end.of three years:
Requirements
(a) Calculate the company's WACC, detailing all your. workings together with ‘any. assumptions you have
made in. your.calculation. (6 marks)
(b) Explain to the company-accountant‘any:reservations the finance director might have with using:
(i) The.cost of debt:finance:as a.discount factor for this-investment;
(ii) The-weighted average:cost of capital.calculated:in (a)-as a discount. factor for this investment. (6.
marks)
(©) Describe the potential practical problems that might bé encountered by a. listed company such ds
Webcroft:Ltd when. calculating its weighted average cost' of capital. (4 marks)
(0) Advise'the finance difector'of'the potential. consequences, both in.theory and practice, for the company's
WACC if this new investment was. financed in. stich a ‘Way as. to increase the company's long-term
debt/equity-ratio above the-industry average. (4 marks)
(20 marks)
10 BILL-JACKSON HAULAGE LTD
Bill Jackson Haulage.Ltd is:a family-owned, unlisted company:specialising in transporting bulk:materials and
waste, particularly for the-local.building trade, using its own fleet of lorries.
The company leases a site on which. are: located the ‘company's lorry’ maintenance: facility;,.a small office:
building and parking space for the lorries. “The: lease.is shortly due.to:expire, and the landowner wishes to sell
the. site rather than:renew the:lease. A figure of about CU500,000 has: been mentioned.as a possible price for
the.freehold.. This.represents about:20% of the-value 00006 company's total assets less,current:liabilities..
You are the*partner in, a_local:firm. of chartered accountants responsible. for, the company's: audit. You have
been speaking: to. Paul Jackson, the company's chief.executive, about:the:possible purchase of the:site. During’
the conversation he said:
‘We are very keen to buythis site. Land prices seem to:rise pretty:reliably round here, so there's 1101,
much. chance of-it turning: out to be a bad:move commercially. ‘If we: don't buy. it, we don't know who
will. It:could be.people who want to use.it themselves, and then we. would have to:find a:new:site. If
we:buy it, a.lot.of-uncertainty would’be:taken away.
The:problem.is where-would the’cash-come:from? We haven't.got any. We.recently expanded our-fleet:
of.lorries‘and that took up all our spare:funds and we had.to:borrow a.bit from the bank as well.
We::could obviously borrow ‘more — if. we can find.:a lender, but we are not keen to overstretch.
‘ourselves. As 1 understand it, some borrowing is'usually regarded as‘a good thing, though I'm:not:clear
2772} | ‘Financial. Management

why. There-mustibe a,limit‘on‘the amount of borrowing that is wise. 413 the maximum. figure:for.a
company like ours? G}
Could you do us:a short report on where we might: get ‘the cash, plus any related financial issues ‘that tH
‘you feel we ought‘to think‘about? I'd be grateful if you would keep ‘it'simple, so that we can understand A
itand discuss it'among ourselves.’ নু
Requirements [৪
(3) Prepare:the report requested by Paul Jackson. (16 marks) R
(b) ‘Critically comment on. each of the: following statements-that have appeared in the: press, explaining the
reasons, for:your.comments and clearly defining all technical,terms:used. B
(i) “A spin-off is a corporate: restructuring. device, where a. company sells off a set of assets. which
‘constitute a definable.part 06103 business to another business. ‘The selling ‘company's objective:is
usually, to raise finance-either for investment in its core-activity:or to stave off.a financial crisis.’ (4 marks)-
Gi): “Where there .is ‘hard’ capital, rationing, the business should seek. to take on projects with the
highest net:present value.’ (4 marks)
(24 marks)
Now. ‘go. back’ to the Learning Objectives in the Introduction. If you are’ satisfied: you. have: achieved. these
objectives, please tick them off.
Capital structure: | 27:31

Answers to lhntcrnciive qmesiions
‘Answer.to Interactive question 1
No debt’ CU800m.debt CU1,800m. debt.
CUm CUm CUm
Profit before tax 100 60 10
Tax @ 21% (21) (12.6) (2.1)
Dividends 719 47.4 7.9
Dividends + Interest to providers of finance 79 87.4 97.9
Cost’to. company
Dividends 79 47.4 19
Interest.x (1 —0.21) 0 31.6 711
79 79:0 79.0
The extra distributions arise because ০6016 corporation ‘tax savings on debt interest. For ‘example, paying CU40m
interest saves CU40m x 21% = CU8.4m‘tax (which is the:difference between the tax bills of.CU21m ‘and CU12.6m
in.the.first and second columns). This gives:rise to the:extra. CU8.4m distributed.(CU87.4m —-CU79m).
The more:highly ‘geared a firm, the: greater should be its total distributions.
Therefore the firm should become more‘valuable.as gearing increases.
‘Answer to Interactive question 2
In. highly-geared firms managers may find that the bulk of their'time’ and attention. is spent on keeping creditors
happy; rather than on seeking’ the best! course of ‘action for the future prosperity ofthe ‘firm. For example, it may
make good :financial sense.'to dispose of. a.‘surplus’ asset and use the funds: to finance a ‘profitable area of
operations. However, if this means a loss of collateral for the creditors, much ‘time’ can. be wasted «in persuading
them-to allow the-asset'to be sold. These operating ‘problems will-reduce the future’ cash flows of the business: and
hence its value.
Additionally, the firm may find that key employees leave :rather than stay and risk being tainted by association
with the bankrupt firm. Suppliers may refuse to deliver trading inventory, and customers’ may refuse to. buy if
they perceive a:risk ‘that the-after-sales service-will-not be there, It may be.necessary to liquidate non-current assets
in.order to finance working-capital, thus entailing'a reduction in the.scale of operations. Parties‘with’ which the firm
is contracted may renege on contracts:if it.is advantageous to them, knowing’ that the.firm.is notin a position to:
bring lengthy and.expensive legal action.
‘Answer to Interactive question’ 3
Base‘case.NPV
Time Cum DF@12% PV CUm
0 (240). 1.00 (240)
1-10 40 5.65 226
PV of:tax shield
Taterest.pa = CU187.5m.x.0,08 = CU15m
Time CUm DF @ 8% PV. CUm
1-10 15 x 0.21 = 3.15 6.710 21.1
Adjust. for.issue:costs of CU1m.
APV =:CU(14)m -4:CU21.1m.4+:CU(Im) = CU6. 1m,
. project worthwhile:overall (in fact project itself is no good, but:financial benefit creates positive:NPV).
271] | ‘Financial. Management

‘Answer to Interactive question 4
(a) Find'the systematic risk:of the electronics industry — measured by B;. °
“ 30(1-0.21) ) A
‘1.6 = B, | 14 জজ
16~p, (1, 200-029) A
v
Bas 1:20 fe
বে Tiskier than existing activities where:B, = 1.15 as no debt), টি
ke = 10% +:1.20 (25% — 10%)
= 28% 6)
(= WACC as.no:debt)
(b) Project: gearing:=:industry gearing, ‘so use B,.= 1.6 to get k, o
সস = 10% +1.6 (25%--10%)
= 34%
Ka = 10% (1- 0.21)
= 7:9%
WACC 5084% X 0:7) + (7.9% X 0.3)
= 26.2%
(0) B,= 1.20..Adjust:to reflect.new gearing:
ie B, $1.20 ( 401-02) ৷

= 1.832.
k, = 10% +:1.832:(25%:— 10%)
= 37.48%
kay = 7.9%
WACC = (37.48% x 0.6) + (7:9% x 0.4)
= 25.65%
Capital structure: | [2751

1 Financial risktis dependent.on the debt/equity‘ratio: the higher‘its:value.the’ greater'is the financial risk.
Operating:risksis dependent on the ratio of ‘variable costs to fixed costs; the higher its value the lower is the:
operating risk, 00600 the lower fluctuation of earnings as:a percentage:of sales.

2 1106 company is financed (initially) in, equal, proportions ‘by debt and equity, an. increase in the tax rate
reduces’the value of ‘the.company, because there will be less:in total to pay ‘to investors, irrespective of the tax
shield.on.debt:interest,

ও The equity beta will be 1.06.

The market value of:the company’s equity.is CU24 million.
Step | is to convert the current equity beta (088) into a beta for an identical,all equity-company (8).
Ba = 9৪708413070)
Ba'= 1:2 x 24/24 +.16:(1 —:0.21))= 0.79
By raising CU4 million in.equity ‘to payoff debt, it has to be assumed that.the company’s ‘equity :shares will.
be worth CU28 million-and the debt capital.CU12: million.
Atthis new gearing lével,.the equity beta (B,) will be:
Be=BMEE+DG-o)
Bg = 0:79/[28/(28-+ 12 (1 — 0.21))] = 1.057,-say’1.06
4 The adjusted present’ value-of the project is:CU2,000,000 to-the néarést-CU1,00,000.
Step 1
Calculate NPV‘ as if the:company were all-equity financed. Here the cost of capital will be. 13%. Loan issue
costs will, be-considered later.
Year Cash. flow Discount.factor at 13% PV ©
CU'000 €U'000
0 (7;500) 1,000 (7,500)
1-3 ‘Post tax: (5,000 X 0:79) =. 3,950. 2.361 9,326
1,826
Step.2
Calculate the PV. of the tax shield provided by the loan.interest, discounting the tax reliefs at the pre-tax cost
of:interest (Assumption: tax shields are just:as.risky as the:interest: payments that generate them.)
Year Interest Tax shields Discount.factor at 10% PV
CU:000 ০0000 ট 01000
1 750 158. 0:909 143.6
2 500 105. 0.826 86.7
3 250 53 0.751 39.8
270.1,
Step 3 ;

NPV ‘of project:if all equity financed 1,826.0
PV of tax:shield due to loan.interest, 270.1
Loan.issue costs (1.00:0)
APV 1,996.1
5. SORINA LTD
(a) Mr Brush
The. data collected by Mr Brush supports Modigliani and Miller's (M&M) theory of gearing (see
below). This’ states that, in the..absence: of taxation, a company's weighted average cost: of capital.
(WACC) depends only-on the risk of that company's earnings (ie the level.of business or:earnings‘risk).
In particular the WACC of.a company ‘in these circumstances is\independent of-its capital structure.
276) | ‘Financial. Management

If one accepts these résults, then, Sorina Ltd would always be faced with, a WAGCC equal to ‘its present.
WACC of 15%. The downward effect: of ‘issuing cheaper debt ‘finance: (at 6%) on the WACC will C}
‘always,.as predicted by M&M, be-counteracted by an.equal.and opposite-rise in the.cost of’equity. This FA)
can. be‘illustrated:as follows for Sorina Ltd. A
Gost [7
of _ v
‘capital . - Equity: B
'% _ : " R
15% — > WACC
6% Debt:
Gearing (Gear)
Consequently the discount rate that should be used for project appraisal is the WACC of 15%. This
assumes that; the: projects ‘to be appraised will carry. the sarne business risk as that from the existing:
operations of Sorina Ltd.
AS an alternative ito the above analysis, it is also. necessary to. consider briefly the:implications: of the
traditional theory of gearing. This is best illustrated. in.its results.by the following diagram.
Cost
‘of নি =
capital Equity
6% Debt
: debe.’
Gearing. (aus)
Under the traditional theory of gearing the initial rise in equity as gearing ‘incréases jis initially
outweighed:in the WACC calculation bythe introduction of cheaper debt'finance. Eventually this. effect
i§ réverséd -and, with the influéncé of bankruptcy risk’ (sée below), even the cost’ of: debt rises. at high
levels of gearing. The overall effect is to produce.a WACC that, for-somie:optimal level of gearing, 15 3
If the:data collected by Mr Brush is consistent with M&M purely by chance 06:06 traditional theory-is
that which actually describes the relationship between WACC and gearing), then Sorina Ltd should
issue sufficient debt to attain its optimal gearing level (ie lowest’ WACC). At optimal gearing the
associated minimum WACC will be-an.appropriate discount rate for.investment appraisal.
WORKINGS
Company P =.Cost of equity _ 12
0-12, or 12%
Capital structure: | Shi

| 36
Company ৫. =.Cost of equity. = ——
pany mu 200
= 0.18, or 18%.
Cost of debt =.6% (= réturn.to debt holders)
’ ’ 0০ “KO
WACC _ 1x18% + 1x6%

= 12%
Company R = Costofiequity _ 24
=.0.16, or 16%
Company $ = Cost-ofequity = 58
- রা 300
=.0-1933,-0r 19 1/3%
Cost of debt =:6%
WAGC - 3৮৮19287146

= 16%
(b) ‘Corporate taxes
If corporate taxes are introduced the-effect is to produce:a costiof debt that is lower than.the 6% return,
required by the providers of debt finance. This.is:on the assumption that companies in Widbergia can
set.interest payments. against profits.for. the purpose of computing. tax, thus obtaining tax.relief‘on such
payments:
M&M predict.that the effect on WACC will be as indicated below.
Cost:
of
capital _— Equity:
15 চা
a WACE _
6(1-19 = = * Debt.
Gearing (a)
equity J.
It can be: Seen that any increase: in gearing will produce.a lower WACC. Thus, if one accepts M&M's
hypothesis with corporation tax, Sorina Ltd would seek to gear as. highly a8 possible (in, practice
investors will.setan upper limit on borfowing). An appropriate discount rate for project.appraisal, would
be:the WACGE at'the:highest:gearing level,
Considering the traditional theory of gearing with, corporation tax, the effect of tax. on the costiof: debt'is
as déséribed above. However, ‘this will not change the basic result: of the traditional theory (i.e. that
there.exists an optimal level of.gearing) and agaii/the minimum WACC will be used.as a discount'rate,
6 THE MARINERS CO LTD
(a) Weighted average costs of capital
At the various levels:of gearing the:weighted average-cost of.capital of Mariners-will be-as follows. The
after-tax cost of debt:is .10%-(1.— 0:21) = 7.9%.
278} | ‘Financial. Management

D k
D+E Cc}
% % fl
0 20 A
20 (0.8 21.625) + (0.2 x 7.9): 18.88 P
40 (0.6 «:24.333) + (0:4 x 7.9): 17.76 v
50 (0.5 :26.5) + (0.5 x 7.9) 17.20 cE}
60 (0.4 x 29.75) + (0.6 x 7:9) 16.64 R
(b) The significance of the,results
‘The implication of-part.(a) is that:k falls continuously as the gearing ratio increases. B
This:is consistent with M&M's 1963 propositions‘on gearing.
The relationship between k:and Dae ‘may‘be-shown.graphically as follows.
+
Modigliani & Miller's 'with-tax' hypothesis
% Equity:
- জা == WACG
‘Debt
0.
In-turn this analysis:suggests.that the:optimal capital structure:in a.taxed world is:99.9%debt..
Whether, this contention.is true is a. vexed issue. Both M&M's 1958 article, which:argued, that there was
no optimal capital structure: but :assumed no ‘corporation tax, and their 1963 correction, to allow for
corporate taxes, are:at: variance: with the traditional view. The debate regarding:the effects of gearing on.
the weighted, average cost of capital is essentially empirical. However, the empirical, evidence: :is
inconclusive and,'the argument. continues. What is not in dispute, however, is that, whatever. its
theoretical, merits, 'the M&M with-tax-position is‘not.accepted by the majority of financial managers in,
practice. Companies with 99.9% gearing ratios are fairly‘thin on the ground!:
(০) Possible.consequences of.a high gearing ratio
As was seen in. parts (a). and (b): above, the: introduction ‘of ‘corporation tax: with. debt interest -as ‘an.
allowable expense: for tax purposes caused M&M: to modify their original proposition that k..is
independent of the debt/equity ratio. Instead, they conclude that: k-is a continuously declining function
of gearing and therefore that the:total value of the firm is maximised where. the gearing:ratio is 99.9%,
‘They. conclude thatthe value of the:firm is-equal to
ie the-value of ‘a geared.company is the value if:it were all equity financed ‘plus the’ present value of. the
tax shield (the tax relief from debt interest payments). This conclusion is‘intuitively. unacceptable and:is
certainly not accepted. by the:majority of practising financial managers. It ‘is now necessary to consider’
possible weaknesses in the analysis to:discover: why most:firms.do not.have-extremely high debt/equity
ratios.
First, the:numerical analysis carried out.in (8) assumes:a constant cost of debt that is unaffected by the
level of gearing. This: is: unrealistic. .At very high gearing levels the suppliers: of debt will be bearing,
most:of the company's risk. In the extreme-case of 100% ‘debt, the entire.risk of the business is.borne by’
the debenture holders and therefore kg must ‘equal. k, (the cost: of equity of an ungeared’ company). It.
seems likely that ky will. rise: as :gearing’ reaches high levels, and therefore it cannot be assumed that: k:
will.decrease‘continuously and linearly.
Capital structure: | 02791

Secondly, the analysis concentrates entirely on the effects on the company's tax bill. Ultimately the
‘value: of ‘the firm must be determined by the present value of the after-tax receipts of the providers of:
capital, both debt and. equity investors. M&M advocate increasing. the gearing ‘ratio, ie paying the
company's earnings to<its:investors in‘the form of debt interest rather than dividends. The rationale for.
this ‘is that there are beneficial. consequences ‘for the company's tax liability: However, as has been
argued above, the real concern should. be with the total tax, both-personal and corporate, paid on. the
‘company’s earnings: While making’ returns to: loan stock may have advantages’ ‘with ‘respect to the.
‘company's tax liability, there:could be personal tax advantages in-ensuring that earnings are:distributed
inthe form of returns to equity.
In the first place, the advantages of. loan. interest payments rather than dividend payments are reduced
by any'tax credit that accompanies dividend payments, Secondly, ‘returns to equity may be in.the form
‘of capital gains ‘rather than income, giving: the: opportunity to utilise the annual exemption on capital
gains, A. final consideration under. the general heading of tax. effects is to recognise. ‘that: the tax
advantages: of high ‘gearing. depend on the existence ‘of a corporate tax liability. Low profitability and
large-capital allowances may combine to ensure.that the.tax.advantages' are reduced, if.not-eliminated..
Apart from the tax: effects there is a. further consequence of high gearing, and that is the risk: of
bankruptcy. Brealey and Myers argue that the total value of a geared company is' its value if. all-equity
financed, plus the: present: value of. the*tax ‘shield, less the: present: value of. financial distress. ‘This last
term includes 'the extreme case: of bankruptcy, but -also includes other financial costs. short, of
bankruptcy. Among these :are conflicts between equity and debt holders. which may result in poor
operating and investment: decisions.;
Costs of bankruptcy include direct costs such as, court fees and, the need. to sell assets at- bélow their
‘value: because of: the forcéd sale, aid indirect costs associated with, managing a company Which is
undergoing a reorganisation. ‘The present value of ‘these costs of financial distress 15 the cost: multiplied
by' the probability that'they will be incurred. Clearly, this probability increases as the debt/equity ratio
increases, and the:eventual:cost may well.outweigh the tax:advantages.
A number of :other factors: which ‘are (more difficult. to quantify may also account for the observed
reluctance of most companies to. adopt: very high gearing levels. First, suppliers.may ‘be: more.reluctant.
to extend credit, to very highly geared companies. Secondly, potential customers, may be concerned at:
the:risk’ of bankruptcy implied by ‘high gearing.
This. would, obviously: affect industrial consumers placing long-run contracts which ৪76 inevitably
concemed ‘with continuity of supplies. It may also have an effect in the: consumer durables industry,
where concern about: the ability of. manufacturers to honour guarantees: could. reflect the demand for
their products. Finally, it is:possible that company managers.may be: worried about:the increased risk of
redundancy and leave: the company as: a. result. This-could have disadvantageous effects on. the caliber
and, morale.of the:company's:staff.
In summary, companies with very. high gearing ratios may gain tax advantages: in terms of their
corporate: tax liability. However, these advantages may be restricted by the availability of taxable
profits. Furthermore, it is the total taxes paid. on, corporate earnings, ie. both, personal and, corporate
taxes, that are really'relevant and there-may be personal tax.advantages from distributing earnings in the
form.of-returns’to.equity rather than debt, as.well as other, less quantifiable costs. These include, but are
not restricted to, corporate bankruptcy. It is possible that.the costs. of-financial. distress may ‘outweigh
the tax advantages associated with:high gearing levels:
7 ADAMS,.PARLOUR & VIEIRA

(& keg = 11.06%: -Base:case:NPV ‘=-—CU50m + CUSm-.x 1/0.1106 = -CU4.79m
The present value.of the:tax shield
interest paid per.annum,= CU25m x 8% = CU2m
tax:relief per annum = CU2m x 21%-=CU0.42m,
present value of the.tax-relief (discounted @ cost of debt)'= CU0.42m,x.1/0.08 = CU5.25m
APV'=—CU4.79m +.CU5.25m =CU0.46m

(b) The company's:existing WACC.is not appropriate because it reflects the existing capital structure of the
company. An increase. in gearing will cause it to change: What it will, change. to ,is not clear ‘cut.
Modigliani and Miller: (M. & M) argued that:in.a taxed world — the costiof capital would fall. down to the
tax shield on debt ‘interest. There is 4 limit to how far this effect will be observed however. The
traditional view ‘is that very.high increases’ in gearing will cause the WACC to rise. In any event, in.a
taxed world, a:change in gearing is‘ likely to mean the-existing WACC.is not.relevant.

280) | ‘Financial. Management

(©) The APV approach:is based on the-assumptions underpinning M &.M'’s view on capital, structuré.
These do.not.necessarily fully reflect the practical aspects of raising capital sich, as °
০ Agency, costs A
০ ‘Financial distress costs P
8 QUIGLEY-INDUSTRIES.LTD u
Financing and otherissues relating to a'major investment R
° Gearing
Quigley Industries. Ltd. (QI) is: operating in a classic cyclical-industry, with high, capital-intensity and, 01
almost certainly, high operating gearing. Operating profits, are: susceptible to great, fluctuations: in, the
face of fluctuations in revenue. History, shows:this trade to be subject, to:such fluctuations.
‘Financial gearing. must therefore: be approached, with caution. Identifying the optimal level of. gearing :
seems very difficult to achieve..I¢ can,only be a:‘matter.of judgement, but forming that judgement: must
take account of QI's current level of gearing-and of levels of gearing in; the:industry, particularly with
market:leaders.and with companies. having high operating gearing, such.as QT.
In theory (Modigliani and Miller) gearing makes no difference to:the wealth of the shareholders: cheap
loan finance has a. positive effect’ that. is precisely cancelled, ‘out. by the: higher returns: required by
shareholders in the face of higher risk. 10 we take account ‘of the tax. deductibility of loan. interest,
gearing .in. theory favours shareholders ‘since, in, effect, there::is a transfer of wealth. from. the tax
authorities:to-shareholders.
At higher levels of gearing 016 ‘risk: of the company being ‘unable to meet ‘its debt commitments of
interest.and capital repayment, particularly during a period ‘of low’revenue/operating, profitability, could
force the company. to liquidate, to. the detriment of ‘shareholders’ wealth. (Director B's comment).
Gearing’ policy tends, therefore; to be seen as. striking:a balance between the benefits ‘of tax:relief and
the-potential.costs of ‘bankruptcy’.
Other factors that could come into. play
° Agency
Directors may be unwilling to gear the company.‘up to a level optimum. to the shareholders. This .is
because:gearing imposes a'set.of.disciplines on.the directors,.ie:of having to meet:interest payments and
arranging:continuing finance when the loan:is:due‘for.redemption.
e —_Sigrialling
Tt is: believed by some that.a company making’ a loan issue implies: confidence .in the. future, and. this
could have a favourable 60900011016 share’ price.
© Clientele effect
1045 believed that: particular shareholders are-attracted to the shares of. a particular company, becatise:of
the level of gearing, Altering the level of gearing could.have a detrimental effect on the-share price as
investors ‘move away’ from the company to a. “preferred habitat”, Uncertainty about the company’s
intentions could-also. have a-detrimental. effect.
A large positive NPV project, stich as. the new plant, will affect gearing, since it will add value to the:
Equity of the.coifipany.
Equity
This is: an obvious: source of finance, subject to. the gearing level.. The :most obvious source of equity is-a
rights issue.to existing shareholders. This .has: the advantage of being:relatively cheap to issue and. does: not
face the company‘with. much of a problem regarding: the issue. price. There. is normally a right that existing
shareholders: are offered new-shares before. a public, issue can.be:made. Usually the shareholders;would need
to.vote away-their “pre-emption” rights, before the company could go for.a public. issue.
Capital structure: | 28 II

A public. issue is. much more expensive than, a rights 15916 to 80162, because there are legally-required,
expensive procedures to be:met: Public issues ‘tend ‘to be more likely’ to fail. Setting prices for, public issues
tends to be difficult to judge:
Equity: is rather more’ expensive to QI than, loan finance: investors: expect higher returns than they do for
ioans, but their returns are distinctly. more riskys, (Director C's.comment). Equities:seem popular at present.
Loan finance
Whether a loan-stock.issue to the public or a term loan from a financial institution, loan finance is relatively
cheap to:raise relative'to equity. Lenders typically ‘expect good security,.and freehold land tends to offer, the
best: security. So the ability-of QT is .likely:to be linked to the extent: that.it/has: unused “debt capacity” in 105
assets.
Lenders. typically expect-lower returns than equity holders; but they have contractual ‘rights to interest. and
redemption payments on.the due dates. This-exposes the company to risk and to.:discipline.
Provided that:the company has sufficient taxable profits, loan interest:is tax deductible and-this makes it still
cheaper for the company.
Retained earnings
This is an, importantsource of.new’finance to Bangladeshi companies. It would not be suitable inthis case,
since all ofthe company's available funds are: already committed.. There is the option of waiting, ‘perhaps a
few years, until retairied earnings’build up before-making ‘the investment, but commercially-this may not be a.
real option,
The revénué reserves are’ not cash, but. -part of ithe owners’ claim. Therefore they are not: available: as
investmerit.funds (Director.D's comment).
Retaining profit has implications, for-dividend policy and, possibly, for shareholder: wealth.
Market efficiency
The evidence is clear, that ‘in: sophisticated. stock markets charted price: patterns do not repeat themselves,
except by chance: Weak:form efficiency is-present:in:such markets.
It'is illogical to.féel.that a:time-of low share‘prices‘is a bad fime to issule-new. shares..Market. efficiency theory
(and.evidence) suggests that whatever'the share price is at any point:represents' the best*unbiased estimate. of
its worth based. on available-evidence:(Director A's:comment).
Other sources
e Leasing’ the plant ৩ Working capital. efficiencies
৩ Sales.and leaseback’ r Possibility of grants from public:funds
‘Advice
It.is possible that QI has sufficient ‘in-house: expertise to enable<it to avoid the need for professional advice.
Raising:the level of finance that:we. are probably. considering: here-is not an everyday:event:for a commercial
company, so‘itis probably better to. seekadvice from experts.
Merchant banks typically ‘are’ able to offer advice and may well be able to-put the company. ‘in touch with
potential investors, assuming that 'the rights-issue route is not taken,
The larger firms of chartered-accountants,:almost certainly QI's auditors, have close: links. to:corporate: finance
advisors.
The advice will not typically be cheap (Director B's comment).

9 WEBCROFT:LTD
(a) 1+8ল /20/17.47 =1.07 g=7%

k, =D/P+g = 20(1.07)/250 + 0.07:=:0:1556. = 15.56%
2821 | ‘Financial. Management

ky = IRR of the-relevant cashi flows, as:follows:

T Transaction CF 5%01' pv 10%df PV ডে
0, Ex-int MV (98) I (98) 1 (98) f
1-3 Interest 6:2. 2:723 16.88 ‘2.487 15.42 A
3 Redemption price 105, 0:864 90°72: 0.751 78.86 [7

9.60 (3:72) v

Pre-tax ky=:5 + 9.6/(9.6 + 3:72):x (10 — 5) = 8.60% (লু

Post-tax- ky = 8,60 x (1 —0,21) = 6.79% R

WACC.

((180m.x:2.50- 15:56%)-+ (60m x 98% x 6.79%) (180m 2750) + (60m x 98%))= 14.55% B

The assumptions made in undertaking this calculation are:as follows:

1 The-validity-of the dividend valuation. model is.assumed. L

2 The-current share ‘price is correct (the: result of an-efficient market) and is ‘not-in any way being.
distorted by ‘short-term factors.

3 The:tax-rate will, indeed, prove:.stable:at.21% per annum.

4 Interest onthe debenture stock:remains tax. deductible.

5 The past growth,rate:in.dividends will be continued:in:future.

6 Thefuture:growth-rate in dividends will be constant.

(8) (i) The:reservations that might:attach to using the. cost of. debt finance ‘alone. as ‘a discount: factor in
‘appraising. this investment are-that firms should not usually discount:investment:returns.at.the cost
‘of .debt: simply because: it: is' being: financed, mainly with debt. Tn the long’ run, the: firm would
undoubtedly need to raise additional equity in order to balance. the debt:finance raised. for this
particular.investment, given.that.the-stated.intention.is to leave the:current.debt/equity ratio intact,
‘and the cost.of the: overall funds: should, therefore, be considered. Only. when a particular source
‘of finance: is very much project: specific: should. the: accountant's: recommendation be considered.
‘valid.

(ii) The: reservations that might attach to using thé WACC calculated in (a) as. a, discount. factor in.
appraising this: investment: are: that WACC 38 only suitable if the investment being considered
maintains the company’s historical proportions of debt and equity by market: value; maintains the
company’s overall business. and ‘financial risk; and. if new debt can be issued at*the same cost as
the existing redeemable debenture: stock., Only if the ‘finance: director ‘is. satisfied. ‘that: these
underlying ‘assumptions -will.hold 06, that the new‘investment will not alter‘the existing: WACC)

‘should the WACC be considered suitable 85 8 discount:factor. Thesé conditions can. be:rélaxed if
the proposed ‘investment. is: considered ‘small/marginal. relative to ‘the company’s overall size, as
‘small/marginal-investments are‘unlikely to impact.on the company's business or financial.risk,
(c) The potential practical problems that might be encountered bya company such-as Webcroft: Ltd when,
calculating its WACC are:

1 The*validity of the-model may be called into question, The estimated cost of equity-is based on the
assumption, that the: value: of an ordinary share is the discounted. present value of ‘the future
dividend stream, but if’ the ‘market: is: using a different. valuation. method ‘model. e.g. CAPM, the
calculation would be 01021711680.

2 There are numerous practical problems ‘in estimating the various ‘variables inthe model — is the:
average dividend growth, rate:meaningful.given that it.is a 08500801799 The:share price is subject to
daily :fluctuations, potentially:involving great volatility.

3 _A.‘firm of ‘this size may Well have other sources of finance which: can pose problems for
incorporating: into an, accurate WACC calculation — for example, unlisted preference: shares,
convertible loan stock; loans dénominated in:foreign currency, off-balance sheet financing items
‘and short-term. debt such as overdrafts, ‘which although classified as short-term. may well.
constitute a long-term source of financing:for the company.

(d) The traditional theory. of. gearing would suggest that ifthe company:is currently at or‘above:its optimal.

gearing level, then. if gearing. were to increase, the WACC would also increase. However, 16 the

company is:not:yet at its optimal gearing level.and the increase-in the debt/equity ratio. moves it.either

closer.to or up-to that optimal gearing level, then the WACC: would.fall, (due: primarily to the effects of

the. tax shield attaching ‘to-debt. interest).

Capital structure: | 2831

Modigliani &,Miller, however, theorised thatsin the. presence of corporation tax,:firms should gear up as

imuch.as possible as:the tax, shield means that the WACC would fall as gearing rose.

‘However, in practice the precise‘impact.on.the company's WACC would depend.on:market:reaction. An,

increase in gearing, per'se, need‘not:necessarily be viewed as negative:by the market (for. the theoretical,

reasons.stated above), but an‘increase in gearing to a.level.in:excess-of theindustry average’is more:than

likely to increase the perceived risk of: the company and therefore will. increase the WACC by

increasing both the.cost of debt:and the.cost:of equity:.

10. BILLJACKSON HAULAGE LTD
(a) REPORT

To: Paul Jackson, Chief Executive:of Bill.Jackson:Haulage Ltd (BJA)

From: J Gray, Black, White and.Gray,-Chartered-Accountants

Date: 13 June.20X2

Subject: Financing the:purchase ofthe company’s site

Terms of.reference

To advise on possibleisources:of finance:for. the purchase of the freehold of the company's site

General points

Before proceeding with. plans’ to purchase: the site the directors must be confident that purchasing. the

current site represents the: best prospect. Moving to an alternative: site, whether, leased or bought, may’

provide an economically’preferable option. If such a site exists,'a net present value assessment. should

be made of the options.

Irrespective of. other'sites the directors must be confident that purchase of. the site:at: the price-expected

represents an economically. viable: prospect. In simple terms, can BJH afford this ‘site, given.the use to

which,it will be put?’

Financing

General points

Broadly, financing sources.fall into two categories;.equity and debt:A. question arises about.the extent.

to‘use.debt; which tends to-be:(or. appears (0:86) cheaper. ‘For. most businesses, debt‘is relatively cheap

because-interest.payments.attract tax relief. It also seems.cheaper because interest rates*tend to be.lower

than 016 level of returns expected by shareholders. This is because lenders' returns are Jess risky than

those of ‘shareholders.

Tgnoring: tax. for a moment, as ‘soon’as a business starts. to borrow (has capital gearing) the returns of

shareholders’ become:more risky. because.they have the.additional burden‘ of legally enforceable interest.

payments: It has been. shown that the. net effect on the shareholders of borrowing is zero. Debt .is

cheaper but'this benefit is:precisely countered.by the higher:returns expected by shareholders because of

the additional.risk.

Thus tax is the-onlysreason that debt-is cheaper. This is significant because it represents a 21% discount

‘on the cost of. debt. From ‘this it might: appear. that businesses’ should ‘raise .all or almost all of their

finance :from.borrowing.. This is not practical for’one main reason: there-is the.danger that the business

would not be. able’ to: meet. its interest or loan redemption obligations, leading to the loan creditors

forcing ittinto liquidation (bankruptcy). This can be very costly to the shareholders because: it tends to

lead to assets being sold-off for much‘less.than 06316 worth to’the shareholders.on a ‘going concern'

basis.

Thus: a balance ‘needs to be: struck: between taking’ advantage of: tax: relief. and avoiding. the. costs of

bankruptcy. Where. this balance’ lies is‘ very difficult to: say .and, in. practice, a. matter of managerial

judgement.

Factors that tend to be‘involved inclade the following.

e ‘Whether the: business has sufficient profits to take advantage of tax relief on interest. payments —
not a problem.with BJH:

° _Whether:the business can provide:security, normally:in the form of suitable assets'—‘probably‘not a
problem.for BJH: with.the:lorries.and the land. itself

° The-type-of assets (18016 business owns — if they tend ‘to have. relatively high realisable values,
bankruptcy cost would be less

2841 | ‘Financial. Management

০ The extent:to which revenues ‘fluctuate — high gearing 1s not ‘consistent with fluctuating profits;
much of. your business: comes: from the: building trade, ‘which tends to have peaks: and. troughs 01৫ IG}
demand [|

০. The: level. of operating gearing (fixed costs’ to total. costs) — high operating gearing leads ‘to profit A
fluctuations which capital gearing’ would add to;.a business like BJH tends to have relatively high P
fixed costs v

cE}

° —_ The:attitude of the shareholders - if they are prepared to take more risk for higher rewards, higher’ iR
capital gearing may be.appropriate.

For your size-of business. €U500,000 is a large loan. -On the other‘hand, you: are presently paying rent —

which T presume. is commensurate ‘with prospective interest. payments, ‘with broadly the same 6)

‘implications, ie failure to pay implies eviction. from the site. Borrowing to buy the site would lower

your operating:gearing, but.increase your capital gearing:

Sources of. finance .

Equity.

New*issue.

The most-obvious source of equity is:a‘rights issue’ to existing shareholders. This has the advantage:of

being‘relatively cheap: tocissue and does‘not provide the company ‘with-much of ‘a:problem‘regarding the

issue’price. A key issue‘here.is theextent to which the shareholders have the funds:necessary to take up

new shares. They may also lack willingness to make:further investment in, the company. On. the: other

hand, they will see the company's problem and may be:prepared.to help if.they’can.

Normally, equity ‘is rather more expensive ‘to the company than debt; investors: expect higher. returns

than for debt,, but their returns are: distinctly ‘more risky.."This tends to be less of an issue witha private

company.

10415 possible that the-directors would consider taking the company public. There are:companies as ‘small.

as this:listed on’the Alternative Investment.Market (AIM), but this-is‘very much at:the lower end. For

this size.of company the: fixed costs of an.ATM listing are -very’high. Moreover, ‘the potential loss’ of.

control, together with the exposure: to public scrutiny associated with ‘an. ATM. listing, would probably

not be welcome to the company.

A.more’fruitftil area for. an.equity issue“might be.a business angel ora venture. capitalist. Such investors

tend ‘to need the. prospect ‘of high returns: and an ‘exit route for‘their investment:. This means that such

investors: are interested only in-expanding;companies that can. be. foreseen to be-likely to. be taken over

or to go public’ within’a reasonable:time:

Retained earnings

This is an important.source-of new finance to.many companies, but it is slow. It:would not be suitable in

this case, since all of the: company's. available funds are already: committed. There is the option of

waiting, perhaps a. few years, until retained earnings build up. before: making: the investment: but,

‘commercially, this.may not be-realistic.

Retaining profit normally ‘has implications for dividend policy and, ‘possibly, for-shareholder wealth,. but

this too:may not bea big’issue:for this company.

Term loan froma:bankor similar‘institition.

Your bank may‘well, be-prepared to lend you thé money, ofto put’ you in touch with another lender. My

firm has corporate finance contacts, which may be able'to advise, if necessary.

A.term loan tends to be tailored to the needs ofthe borrower. It may involve partial repayment of. the

principal (the. amount. borrowed): with interest payments over-the period-of ‘the loan (like a repayment

mortgage) or‘interest.only payments until the:loan is due:to. be-repaid. Téerm,loans tend ‘to.be'very cheap:

to.negotiaté,

Interést:rates tend:to. be low. whereé:thére is good,security,. which, there would, be inthis case where the

site. value would. provide a good basis. Lenders would tend. to want a margin. of safety, so would be

feluctant to lend CU500;000 on-the security of an asset-costing that-much. ‘Tt may be that-other assets

could also be-pledged ds security, or'that other sources-(see below), could reduce the-amount required,

1018 not unusual for lenders to impose covenants or restrictions on the borrower, ০৪ insisting: that it

maintains a.particular currént.assets/current liabilities;ratio.

Capital structure: | 2851

This type of ‘finance looks. as if it may be the most. appropriate for BJH and should be seriously
considered.
Loan, stocks
In theory this is a.possibility but, for a small family: company, 1018 probably not:very practical. Probably
the:main benefit of loan stocks.is their transferability;.but without;a listing:this:is probably 11011801586.
Working capital
It-may-well be worth assessing whether there is any scope for generating some cash from the company's
working capital. For example; might-it be possible for you to reduce trade receivables and/or:increase
trade payables? There is clearly little scope with inventory since you_hold very little. Anything that,y.ou,
can_ obtain from working capital, provided that you are. prudent; would have little: or no cost. The
amounts. involved. here would certainly. not.make. great; inroads on CU500,000; but it, might be worth
considering.
Unused non-current.assets
Are there-any assets that you.do not use. or are.not.used_ profitably? If there. are, and they could be sold,
cash,could’be. generated. As with working'capital, any:cash sourced.from. here would.be relatively little.
(b) 0) Critical comments:on the spin-off:statement.
The: statement ‘is comprehensively wrong. .A. spin-off occurs. where ‘a company takes a:definable:
part: of its :activities and. places it'in another, subsidiary‘company. It:then hands-out:the shares in
the subsidiary to the members ‘of the original company pro rata their shareholding in. the-latter.
Usually. a:stock.exchange listing:is obtained. for the new; ‘spun-off:company.
The:reasons for doing this:are’typically twofold.
* A desire'to give-the spin-off company its own distinct identity, which might enhance overall
shareholder value.
০ To:avoid a takeover'attempt for the whole-company, by making the spun-off element: more:
expensive.
Thus:no. new finance.is raised and .there-is no effective change in.ownership of any of:the assets: of
the original.company.
What‘is described in the’quote.is a ‘sell-off.
(ii) ‘Critical comments:on the capital-rationing statement
Capital rationing“is a situation where a.company does not have sufficient funds ‘to.make all of the
investments that have a. ‘positive NPV, when discounted at the investors’ opportunity’ cost of
capital.
The: capital. restriction may arise from the company's inability to raise funds in the: market, so-
called. ‘hard’ capital rationing. (A company-imposed restriction, on, ‘thé amount of investment
finance available to:managers, say, at divisional level-is known as ‘soft capital rationing.)
In principle, selecting investments on the basis of-the highest NPV per, CU of investment:finance
(not riecessarily the highest NPV projects) will lead ‘to the maximum generation, of shareholder
wealth,
2861 | ‘Financial. Management

SO Lee সচ
ne eer 2 - ১1 ০০ ১৯২৫
2১০০৭ bs মা ee ns ৬০ eS Se SNE esac ১ ২ a oe
ee] ০ ই টাও চা ২২ ion They সং ALEK 20. ay z Pg OL,
aa LE (| SEE ee ea SS EE ও ১ ৬ সস ৮০০৮
aes 11 fe
——— = ce ZS : oe ——— ee : =
CHAPTER 7
Equity sources and
dividend policy
Introduction.
Examination.context.
Topic List

1 The classic: view of the irrelevance.of the source of-equity finance

2 M&M and dividend policy:

3. Share buy-backs‘and scrip dividends
Summary and Self-test
Answers to.Interactive questions
Answers to:Self-test:

[oo

Introduction
Learning objectives Tick off
e To. explain why. in theory the source of equity finance: is irrelevant in determining shareholder i
wealth
০ ‘To explain the: practical limitations ০016 theory’on.raising:equity
০ To.explain the theorétical and practical issues surrounding .:the:dividend decision
Syllabus-references relevant.to this.chapter:are 1b, f, m..
Syllabus links:
This subject:follows:on. from the chapters’on sources of finance and gearing.
Examination context
You may be:asked to evaluate the.implications of different:dividend policies in the exam.
You may'also be.expected to-explore the implications: of raising-equity finance from a varietyof sources.
292} | ‘Financial. Management

1. The classic: 16 দ00016111-0163110৫006:-01 the source.of equity
finance
es) Section overview
LES
Os ° The cost. of the equity finance.is the same, irrespective of whether the equity is: new shares, a rights issue or:
retained. profits.
© Pricing new-issues.— too_high and it. may not:succeed, too low and it will cause too much dilution.

1.1 TheM-& M'view ৪
This view was developed by Modigliani and. 111]67, Whose views are regarded as the classic ‘position. Their A
argument is that all sources. of equity:finance:have the same’cost, and’ therefore that the particular source of ‘equity ঢ
finance is.irrelevant. T
It has: been seen already that the cost of equity finance represents the returns,required.on equity funds invested. If [হর
this.level of return.is not obtained, share’ prices will fall until. the implied.return on-equity equals the shareholders" R
required rate’of return. This argument.applies 00:41] sources of equity.

For example; k,.=—?

ple P, 7]
If:returns’to investors ie dividends.fall, then the value-of the:share price-will.fall. This'results in the required rate-of
returns (k,).being:maintained at the required level.

1:2, The irrelevance argument ‘demonstrated;

If. both new equity and retained earnings have the same cost, then: it should be irrelevant, in terms: of:shareholder
wealth, where equity:funds are.found. This is demonstrated:in 016 following:illustration:

xe ‘Worked‘example:. Irrelevance argument:
Zeus Ltd is' an equity financed company. It has in.issue ‘5,000,000 shares. These are currently quoted at CU5.50°

. each: cum-div:, The dividend proposed for. the current,:year is ৩00 per share. No ‘increase in this dividend is
anticipated unless.new projects are.accepted. There:is no long-term-debt.
The company's cost:of equity (k,) is. 10%.
One such project is:currently under consideration. This project:would involve investing CU500,000 immediately. It:
would generate a cash.surplus of CU100,000 in one: year's time and. annually thereafter.in perpetuity. The project:
cash.flows are. known to the market, and.do not alter the company-s risk. All of the project cash.flows would be
paid as dividends.
The NPV ofthe project is (CUS00,000) + €U100;000/0.1:= CU5S00,000
You are asked to evaluate:three alternative sources of finance from the point:of view of theexisting shareholders:
(a) -A reduction in. the current year's dividend to 40p: per share, so as to. release: CU500;000 of. ‘internally-

generated: funds
(b) A rights‘issue on a‘one-for-ten basis at CU. per. share
(c) Anew issue of shares, These would.be identical to existing ordinary shares:and would first-rank ‘for dividend
in.one year's time,
Ignore.taxation.and issue costs,
Equity'sources and-dividend policy | 293.

[08000016121 project.and related.finance.
CU million
Current.ex-div value-of shares='5 million:x-CU5.00 25
NPV of the project 0.5
Increase in equity capital 0:5,
Ex-div value of shares afterwards 26 million
Alternative working:
Existing dividend =:CU0.5 x.5m = €U2.5m.
Increased. dividend = CU0.Im,
. টে? cu" নক
Pa D, _ 202. 5m +6). ‘1m = CU26m
k, 0.1
This will be the ex-div value of the equity irrespective of how the money is raised. The cum-div value: will.
obviously be affected if some of the-dividend is.retained, but the wealth.of the shareholders will not be.
(a) Retained.earnings
(CUmillions) ‘Ex-div. +:Dividend.= Cum-div'
‘value value:
Before? 25 25 27.5
\ Increase in shareholder
Capital: using dividend 0.5 (0.5) ' wealth:is CU0.Sm,
Project:outlay: (0.5) being'NPV of project.
PV (inflow) 1.0
NPV Project 0.5 J}
26m + 2.0m = 28m
(b) Rights issue
Ex-div +Dividend= Cum-div
value value
Before: 25 25 27.5 Increase.in shareholder wealth is;
Increase in-value-of.equity CU.1.0m.
Capital: 0.5 ‘Less: cost:of new shares CU(0.5m)
Projectioutlay (0.5) CU0:Sm
PV (inflow) 1.0
NPV Project 0.5
26. 2.5 28.5,
In:conclusion, ‘the change in shareholders’ wealth is thé same, irrespective of how the new capital is-injected..
(c) New share issue
While, the. wealth of the ‘shareholders in total is unaffected by the source of the new equity, the. way that
wealth.is divided between the.shareholders:is influenced bythe price chosen. The company therefore:needs to.
consider:carefully the-asking price per share.
If these ‘new shareholders. are allowed to enter, the company too ‘cheaply; the increased number of ‘shares will
detract from the wealthof existing shareholders; if priced too highly they-will.refuse to subscribe.
If. all-of the gain is: to go-to the existing shareholders the ex-div value of: their 5m shares must be:CU25.5m
after accepting 06017060016 CU5.10 each. Ifthe company wants’ to set a price of CUS.10, they. will need to
issue?CU500,000 + CUS.10'=-98:039 new shares.,
Taking.into account the.NPV of the subsequent project, the value. of the:shares would change as follows.
294) | ‘Financial Management

Issuing ‘new'shares at a price of:CU5.10
Shares Price ‘Value.of
shares
CU CU
Amount:issued 98,039! 5.10 500,000
Currently in.existence 5,000,000 5:00 '25,000;000
25,500,000
NPV of project 500,000
5,098,039 5.10 '26,000;000 rc
The:combined.value. ofthe shares would be CU26:million (as:illustrated above). This would be. sharéd over C
the 5,098,039 shares to.give a.share price of CU5.10. Fa
Gain A
Amount issued. 98,039 5.10 500,000 nil e
Currently-in existence 5,000,000 5.10 ‘25,500;000 ‘500,000 (হু
500,000, R
Once all shares have moved to the equilibrium price-of CUS5.10, ‘it can be seen that all.of the gain has in-fact:
gone-to-the:existing: shareholders. 7
Considering: another illustration: if the:company set an issue’price of*only CUS, the:number of shares:issued
would have to rise. ie 100,000 new shares issued. ‘Taking into account the NPV, ‘the value of the :shares ‘is |
again CU26m, but this time:with,a share price of 005:098 (০0026 million/5.1, millionshares).
Issuing:new shares ৪03 price of. CU5-00
‘Value:of.
Shares Price: shares.
CU CU
Amount‘issued ‘100,000 5 500,000
Currently in. existence 5,000,000 5 25,000,000
25,500,000
NPV of project 500,000
5,100,000 5,098 26,000,000
Once all of the: shares’ have moved to: an equilibrium price: of CU5:098, the. gain of CU500;,000 due to the.
NPV ‘is shared.between existing and new shareholders.
Gain
Amount.issued, 100,000 5.098 509,804 9,804
Currently in.existence 5,000;000 ‘5.098 25,490,196 490,196
৩00,000
In conclusion, the-share price set:for a-new issue-determines how'thé wealth.is shared, but:not.the amount of.
the wealth, which is unaffected.
Suiimary of overall position.
Description, Retained Rights ‘New. share
earnings ‘Issue issué (assuming a price
of €US.10)
CcUm CUm CUm CUm CUm. CUm
Original value of equity 27.5 272.5 27:5
cum-div 5m x GU5:50
Ex-div value of original
equity with.scheme 26.0. 26.0 25:5
-and project
Equity:sources.and:dividend, policy | 295)

Proposed dividend 2.0 25 2:5
Cum-div value 28.0 28:5 28:0
Less:investment:to - (0.5) -
buy rights
28.0 28.0 28.0
Net gain tovexisting 0.5 0.5 0.5
Conclusion
From the above illustration itis concluded that strict-application' of ‘the dividend valuation approach indicates: that:
the. source of equity finance. ‘is .irrelevant. This is because whichever way the :finance: is’ provided, equity
shareholders: require a return of. 10%-:per‘annum.
Note that:in all cases’the increase-in total.shareholder wealth equals the:NPV of the project:
4:3; Pricing of new issues
One of the most difficult-problems. in making a new’ issue to the public is setting the-price correctly, If it is too
high,. the issue: will ‘not: be fully taken up and will. be left with the: underwriters. This will ‘reflect badly’ on. the
company and on the‘issuing: house.
The solution iiay be: to under-price the néw issue. However, this works to the: detriment. of ‘the existing
shareholders.
| >) ৷ Interactive question’1: Pricing of new. issues i [Difficulty level? Exani standard]:
L&I Using the data in the-worked.example; calculate:the following:
(a) The:gain to the:existing shareholders;if the new. shares are‘issued at CU4 each
(b) The issue:price:at, which the existing: shareholders neither, gain nor lose.
(a) To find the:gain, use-this approach:
০ Find the 11010061-05100163
° Find'the value per share afterwards
০ Compare to the: value before (or‘cost:of shares.for new shareholders)
(b) For'the-existing sharéholders:to make-no gain, the share price afterwards must remain at CUS.
296} | ‘Financial. Management

See Answer af the end ofthis chapter.
০. _ The total. gain remains constant-at'CU500,000. The: change is the’ sharing of. that gain between new and.old
shareholders
e What. you should have demonstrated is:that‘if new sharés are issued at a very low price, then moye of the gain,
of CU500,000 accrues to thie-néw sharetiolders রি
০ Whereas if. the price is set: at high, then more of the: gain goes. to the existing shareholders. This’ presumes &
however that.the.new shares. will.be’sold at-a high price — which,may. not occur P
© —_ Almost irievitably, the-price would have to be below the existing market price for the -issué to be subscribed u
A rights;issue completely ‘bypasses the: price problem. Since'the shares, are offered to existing shareholders, it does R
not matter ifthe price-is well below the-traded price. Indeed, it-would be.normal for this to be-so.. Although. there
would’be-a gain on the-new shares, bythe nature of a:rights issue this'would go to ‘the existing shareholders.
14 Practicalities of raising equity finance
The above analysis and. conclusions must be considered in the light of the practicalities of raising equity, As
‘discussed.in the chapter on sources of finance, new equity’ issues, -including*rights ‘issues, are expensive ‘and time
consuming —.a very important practical point that results in-retained profits being.a much more frequent:source’ of
‘equity finance.
1.5. Pecking’order.
It-has. been suggested that because of:issue, costs firms try to access equity finance in a. particular sequence, :ie‘they’
follow a. ‘pecking. order’. Note: that the first worked example in, this chapter, Trrelevance ‘argument; assumes that.
issuing :shares is‘costless.. The-order in which equity funds are;supposedly used is as follows:
e Retained. earnings 376 usually:the chéapest‘source:of finance as they-inivolve-no 18906 costs., However, if-they
are used ‘too extensively the result can, be a substantial cut in, dividends, which, will upset shareholders,
depress the share price-and drive up‘the.cost of equity.
e _ Rights issues;and placings:are the next cheapest form of equity:finance;due to the-relatively low issue costs
° New issues to the public tend to be the most expensive source of equity finance.
2; M&M-and.dividend policy:
=> . F
Section overview
LGB
০ In theory, dividend policy is:irrelevant-in determining shareholder wealth.
, 8 There-are’a number-of practical issues that’need.to:be considered when paying-out dividends.
o Shares can be given in lieu of dividends.
Modigliani and Miller (M&M) proposed that in theory the pattern of..dividends over ‘time is: irrelevant in
determining ‘shareholder. wealth.
If the source:of equity finance is:irrelevant (retentions or new issues): then-dividend policy :must:also be irrelevant.
This ‘means that paying or not paying a dividend does not’ matter, provided ‘a firm takes on all available positive
NPV projects such that shareholders’ wealth-is maximised.
M&M are not saying dividends themselves are irrelevant (after. all the value of a share.is the present value of the
dividend stream) but’they are:saying that.the.pattern of payments‘(ie the.dividend policy) is-‘irrelevant.
Equity'sources and-dividend policy | 297)

। | Interactive question 2: Dividend: policy: (Difficulty. level: Easy],
, Le Consider a firm‘paying a 100 dividend each year with a.costrof equity-of 10%.
: If the: firm.could invest:in a project which.-meant cancelling the. 10p dividend.in one: year and ‘investing it for one
year 30016 cost-of.equity, what. would. happen.to: shareholder wealth?
See Answer at the end of this chapter.
While the dividends’ themselves are-important, the patteriiof payment.is not, Obviously shareholders would prefer
positive NPY investments,
M&M went on.to argue’ that only’ after a.firm has invested in all positive NPV projects. should a dividend.be paid if
there‘are. funds remaining} ie-retentions should be used ‘for project finance with-dividends asa residual. Given’ their
assumptions, M&M are-right, It-is a:matter of whether these assumptions hold.in the real world.
2.2, Arguments for the:relevance of dividend:policy’
Traditional theory/resolution of:uncertainty
In the example.in section 1 above, the’ use of.retained earnings ‘involves’ sacrificing current income’ (dividends) in
order. to: increase. wealth. through. a. higher. share value, ie a capital. gain. Traditionalists would argue that: CU1 of
dividend income received now is':more certain than CUI of. capital gain (the so called. ‘bird in the hand'
approach). Greater value:would be put on a.firm-paying a dividend (and-issuing: shares to finance new:investments)
than one.using’retentions (ic.cutting dividends).
Essentially this implies’ that cost of equity increases with time, ie later cashflows should be discounted at a higher
rate than earlier. cash flows. In :fact, rather than. being ‘related to time,. risk is related to the nature of the’ project.
which: produces the cash flows. So, as long as an.appropriate.risk-adjusted rate is’ used, there is no need. to value
earlier cash flows more highly than later cash flows. The. resolution of uncertainty argument ‘is, therefore,,
fallacious.
2.3. Dividend’signalling

In reality investors do ‘not have perfect information concerning’ the future prospects of the. company. Many.
authorities. claim, therefore, that. the pattern. of dividend payments is a key consideration 011 the: part of. investors
when estimating future’ performance. For‘example, an increase-in dividends ‘would signal greater confidence:in. the
future:-by:managers and.would lead investors to increase their-estimate of. future earnings, and cause arise in-share
prices. A sudden:dividend cut.on‘the other hand would‘usually have a.serious:effect upon.equity value, as.estimates
of.futureidividend flows. are:also cut.
This argument, implies that dividend. policy ‘is relevant. Firms should attempt: to. adopt a stable (and rising)
dividend pay-out to maintain. investors’ confidence.
Note that if dividends.do convey information, this is:evidence against:strong:form.market.efficiency because it
implies that:information.exists which is:not‘already. incorporated into the:share price.
Investors: may be attracted to firms. by their ‘dividend policies. ‘This might be because, high pay-outs attract. those
who prefer current income or,low payments attract those with high. marginal _income:tax rates. Low pay-outs may’
also:attract those secking-capital gains, eg:pension.funds which.must meet long-term pension commitments as. well,
as:short term pension:payments.
Major changes in dividend policy should be: avoided if possible as these might upset particular-clientele who sell
their:shares, pushing down the;share price.. While new clientele may find the:new policy attractive and buy shares,
the-overallclimate:of uncertainty as to-what.is the:long-term dividend policy. could have a depressing effect:on the
share price.

XB | ‘Financial. Management

‘2.4.1, Preference for,current income:
Many. ‘investors ‘require .cash dividends to finance current: consumption. This does ‘not only apply to :individual
investors needing cash to: live’ on, but also to’ institutional investors, such, as pension funds and insurance
companies, which. require:regular cash inflows from some of their share investments to:meet:day-to-day outgoings,
such: as pension payments and insurance claims. This implies that many shareholders will prefer companies which.
pay‘regular.cash dividends and will therefore ‘value their shares:more.highly.
Modigliani and: Miller challenged. this argument and claimed that. investors requiring cash can generate ‘home-
made dividends’ by'selling shares. This argument. has: some:attractions: but:ittignores: transaction costs. The:sdle of
shares involves brokerage costs: and can.therefore be unattractive’to many investors. Also, some:investors, such as .
trusts, ‘are not:allowed to spend ০৮:০1 capital;.only‘income:may be.used:for.consumption..
keg ডে
(2.4.2: -Taxation.. wD
Income ‘and capital gains. are taxed ‘differently:in Bangladesh. (eg.gains ‘are taxed at a flat rate subject.to. an. annual. a
exemption). It: is ‘not: the: place of this manual, to examine tax. in. depth. Suffice 1000 say that there may be a Ty
preference:for income or capital gains depending. on.the investor's tax position. &
If. cash is unavailable.to pay a.dividend (perhaps because positive NPV projects exist which, ifinvested:in, leave
cash ‘unavailable for dividends), either the. planned investment should be cut back or money’borrowed if itis felt. v
that payment of.a dividend ‘is necessary’to-avoid: adverse signalling effects..
2:6. Agency theory:
As has been seen in earlier, chapters, managérs/directors do not nécessarily 30011) the bestiinterests of shateholders.
Shareholders can keep some: control over their, money by insisting on ‘high pay-out ratios. If managers/directors
want new’ funds for investment, they are‘forced to issué sharés (by rights issue. or to the public) and justify why the:
investment is sound. Obviously, managers/diréctors would prefer:to'use-fétentions in this-instance.
The agency cost:is reptesented by the:cost of the:new share issue.
Eyen. if managers are allowed to use retentions for investment (with correspondingly lower pay-outs), there may
still be. an agency cost. for shareholders. in that managers may invest in ‘empire building” projects, ‘rather than in.
those which increase shareholder. wealth..
3 Share buy-backs and:scrip:dividends
z=| Section overview
৬১2১ He Companies repurchase shares if they want to return.Jarge:amounts-of capital.to shareholders.
ও Companies offer, shares in-lieu of, dividends,
3.1. Share repurchases
As an alternative to dividend payments a. company might consider using the cash to :repurchase issued -shares
(reducing:equity and.increasing gearing).
Buy-backs' also enable a:company to use surplus cash without ‘disturbing the normal. dividend. policy. If:surplus
cash. were used to increase the dividend this might be treated over-favourably by the market, expecting higher
dividends/growth in future which is not sustainable. An alternative-to buying.back shareswould be.to pay.a. ‘special,
dividend’ making it clear that it was a one-off. above :normal sustainable levels, thus: sending, the right signal. to
shareholders.
The repurchase’ may be: achieved by buying: shares in the stock ‘market, or. inviting shareholders to tender their
shares, or by arrangement with particular shareholders. Repurchases are subject.to.the Companies Act.and the rules
of:the Stock:Exchange.
3:2: Stock«(or.scrip) dividends
Companies:may offer scrip dividends:(ie shares) in‘ lieu of cash dividends.
Equity'sources and-dividend policy | 299.

[23 স01060-6:8111016: Stock dividends:
Jack. Ltd has 100,000 shares issued valued at CU1.10 cum-div per share. The: market expects: Jack Ltd to’ pay a
: dividend of 10p:per share in the near future.
Jack:Ltd.is considering the: following options:
(1) Pay the dividend of'10p per-share,
(2) Cancel the cash dividend.and substitute a/1-for-10 scrip dividend.
(3) Offer-a choice of:cash,(10p) or. scrip (1-for-10).
4 Offer-a:choice of cash (10p) or'enhanced.scrip (1-for-8).
Requirement.
Calculate the effect on wealth of each of. the above options on a. shareholder with 1,000 shares (for (3) and. (4)
assume 90% of shareholders take-the scrip alternative).
(1) cu
Wealth before. 51,000 CU1.10 1,101
..MV shares = 1,000°x CU1.00 1,000 7 relevance
Cash.received 51,000: CU0.10 100
1,100
(2) “Number of shares issued = 10,000
Total value of'shares, =-GU110,000 as no cash paid out
CU: (
2. New:share price = =110,000
110,000
=-CU1.00 ex-diyv
Shareholdér:riow has ‘1,100/shares, wealth
1,100 x CUT.00 =CU1,100
..No difference from conventional dividend. (ie dividend policy irrelevance).
(3) 10% of shareholders take:cash, *.cash paid = 10,000 100
= CU1;000
New MV of shares = CU(1.10,000-— 1,000)
= CU109;000
90% of shareholders: take scrip, .:. number of shares issued = 90,000 x. =
= 9,000:
”. New share price = #109; 000
109,000.
= CU1.00.ex.div’
Therefore
CU
Wealth of shareholder:who took:cash
1,000, shares -@ CU1.00 1,000
Cash, 100
1,100,
Wealth-of shareholder who took’scrip
1,100 shares @ CUL. 1,100,
53,0) | ‘Financial. Management

Thus, ignoring ‘tax effects.etc, shareholder should:be:indifferent between no dividend, cash:dividend and,scrip
dividend (dividend poli¢y ittélevance).
Note
Option. (3) the choice, only works because the terms-of ‘the dividend and scrip were: such that; in isolation,
they. resulted in the-sameishare«price.
(4) New MV. = €U109;000 (as (3))
‘New number of shares = 100;000 + 90;000 x ;
= 111,250
cu'109,000 রড
111,250 A
P
= CU0.97978 v
Therefore Ee
cu R
Wealth of shareholder:who takes:cash 1,000 x CU0.97978 979.78
Dividend 100.00
1,079.78 v
Wealth-of sharéholder who takes;scrip. 1,125 x CU0.97978 1,102.00
Shareholder taking enhanced scrip is better off (ignoring tax).
Advantages of scrips
With momma aap @® andl @) chor) Wwithtenhancediscripl(d)tabove)
° Company-avoids liquidity:problems ° Company avoids liquidity problems
০ Shareholder’ swaps income’ for. capital. gain. and ০৩ Shareholder swaps ‘income: for larger capital. gain
may be: better off (depends on their’ income ‘and (if < 100% take enhanced scrip) and.:may: be
capital. gains tax position) better:off. (depends on tax. position)
3.3, Conclusions on-dividend policy:
M &.M are probably right, despite their‘assumptions.. Evidence: suggests that share value and dividend policy are
not ‘closely related. But! evidence also points to.a clientele: effect. Perhaps: the: best: a. firm ‘can 00 is establish a
dividend policy:and stick with it. Many’listed. firms opt for a stable, rising:dividend per share. Dividends are set at
a level below anticipated earnings to provide for ‘new. investment (thus avoiding the-need for too many expensive
share issues) and, to allow the: dividend to be maintained. if there is. a ‘sudden, temporary fall in. earnings. Any
earnings in.excess: of normal, dividend requirements.and beyond those:required,for:investment could be returned to
shareholders via.one-off:special;dividend payments or, used to repurchase the firm's:shares.
Equity:sources and dividend policy | 301

১৮1111113170431701১0140031 |
. Srimmeass || dmeasvrises ||
টড |
pircelevantinitheory,
CS) Same |
id Only{paygam | Wraditionallapproach) Vif Signalling: | f IReckingtorderg
‘aise 0109 = Gehaowis 2 লন mm junidsiareyraised
টেট যয times inaxvewayes
AN ppuciects.exist || সারা once aa tovreducerisste)
paeShareholders & liffunavailablesmay: Fe Directorsimayz
ero payable shareholdersmTM
03021 | ‘Financial.Management

Answer the following questions.
1. JETHRO LTD
Jethro. Ltd has an.issued ‘share capital of.5.million ordinary shares,-on which. it has paid annual. dividends:of
80p per share: for several years. The company has no plans: for expansion, and the stock. market generally
expects dividends (0 continue at that level. The::market price per share is’ CU5.80 cum-dividend. The
company has no.fixed interest capital..
The directors are considering, the acceptance: of a new capital, project- which, would require an immediate
outlay of CU700;000. If the project were accepted, it is estimated ‘that-it would. generate netcash receipts: of ৪
CU140,000 per annum indefinitely (starting in one yéar's-time). Those: additional receipts would be'used to fo)
incréase dividends. A
P
The directors are considering: two ‘possible ways .of using ‘shareholders’ funds ‘in order to finance the new v
project. হর
R
(1) Av:rights issue of, 1 new share. for every 25 shares-held at present at a price. of CU3:50 per. share. The
new shares, would rank for dividend one year after. issue.
(2) Ansissueof shares‘to the general ‘public. The:new shares would rank for dividend one year after'issue, v
Assume’ that, 10016 project: were: accepted, the: firm's ‘expectations of ‘future results would be discovered, and.
believed by the stock: market, and that the market would. perceive:the risk:of the firm to be-unaltered.
Requirements
(a) Estimate the.ex-dividend price per share 10016 project is financed by the-rights issue, and calculate the
gain made by shareholders,
(b) Estimate the: gains' made by present: shareholders and new shareholders if. the new :shares in option (2)
are:issued at CU4.00 each.
(c) Calculate ithe price at:which the.new shares should. be issued under option, (2) if ‘the total benefit. of the
projectiis to go to existing shareholders.
(d) Discuss the practical differences between retained earnings, rights‘issues and new‘issues'to the public.as
sources of equity ‘finance.
Note: Ignore taxation and:issue costs for parts (a):to:(c), but.not (0). (15 marks)
2. STRONTIUM‘LTD
Strontium. Ltd has' an. issued: share capital of 1 million. ordinary shares. of. CU1 each and no fixed interest
securities. It has just_paid.a dividend of 60p per share. Dividends have<recently. been. increasing 80016 rate: of
5% per.annum,-and shareholders generally believe: that this'rate of.dividend. growth will continue:indefinitely.
The market price is CU6.30 per’share.
The company is now considering an.investment proposal which would_require an initial outlay:of CU600,000
and would generate net cash, receipts for the following three: years of €U300;000, CU500;000 and
CU300,000 respectively. These additional receipts will be:used to.increase dividends.
The cash for the initial outlay will be raised by:means of a.tights issue with issue:costs of CU20,000. Assume
that if the project were:accepted the'firm's expectations of future results would be discovered, and believed by
the stockmarket,
Requirements
(a) Estimate the. market ‘capitalisation of Strontium’s, ordinary shares once ‘the rights ‘issue has been made:
and the project has ‘been accepted. (4 marks)
(b) Calculate the:gain.made by the: shareholders in total as.a_result of ‘accepting: the project.
(3 marks)
Equity sources.and:dividend policy | 03031

(©) Calculate the-nét présent‘value:of the project after subtracting ‘issue:costs, (3 marks)
(0) The rights.issue in the above example will také-one of the-following forms.
0) Al for 10 issue:at-CU6.20.
Gi) AJ for S:issue at-CU3.10.
In each.case calculate the gain.made by the: holder, of 100 shares who takes up.his rights.. Assume
issue:costs:are the.same under both options. (5 marks)
(e) (i) Tf the-rights issue-were 1 for 5-at CU3.10,,at: what'price-should a'shareholder. who:does not wish to
take ‘up the ‘offer hope to sell his rights, if he is still to: make -his full share of. the gain. on. the’
project?
(ii). Calculate the: gain made by: the holder of 100. shares who: sells: his rights at ‘this -price.
(4 marks)
(0. Whattis the minimum*price at'which the shareholder‘should sell-his rights if.he:is not'to-make'a loss? (3
marks)
(22 marks)
3 SOUTHERN INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD
Southern ‘Tadustrial Services Ltd is an all equity financed,.Stock Exchange, listed company:.Over 16081156315
the company's management has adopted, a fairly cautious and:conservative policy. of: not, seeking:expansion,
but has béen content to earn 4 steady level of‘profits, most-of which have been-distributed as dividends.
Recently there,have been some personnel, changes at board level with: the result that the company has more
actively been seeking :new ‘investment; opportunities. In the financial-year which has just ended the company
reported profits of:CUS million, a-similar figure-to that of recent years.
It has been estimated that the company's cost:of equity:is 15% per annum.
Four investment: projects have: been identified, all of which could. commence immediately: The: estimated
cash.flows:and timings of these projects:are as follows.
Project A B Cc D
cUm CcUm cUm CUm
Year 0 (2.00) (2:00) (3.00) (1.00)
Ad. 0.75 '0.65 0.80 0:50
2 0.75 0.65 0.80 0.50
3 0.75 0.65 0.80 0.50
4 0.65 0.80
5 0.65 0.80
Each of these projects is in the same:risk class as the company's existing’ projects,
You have been asked by the board to give your advice on dividend policy at néxt'week's board meeting.
Requirements
(a) Calculate how much Southern, Industrial Services, Ltd should, pay to shareholders as a dividend. in.
respect/of the:company’s. financial year which has just ended, assuming that Modigliani and Miller were
correct-in,their:onginal 196] proposition on dividend policy.
You should-ignore:taxation:in this calculation. ‘(5 marks)
(b) Prepare notes on. which you‘will base your contribution to the board meeting. These -should include.a
brief’ explanation of the Modigliani, and Miller proposition on dividend policy and. reasons why the
company's, board may. decide-not; to pay the: level. of. dividend which you ‘indicated in (a). You should
bear in mind the fact that most members of the board have. little or no.-accounting or financial
knowledge. ‘Your:;comments must relate to the particular circumstances of Southern Industrial Services
Ltd. (8 marks)
Ignore inflation,
Work tothe nearest:CU 1,000. (13 marks)
304 | ‘Financial. Management

4 MILLER SHARP LTD
Miller Sharp Ltd isa Stock Exchange: listed-company. which had operated in:two main areas:-of business —-the:
manufacture: of agricultural supplies. -and the: manufacture: ‘of furniture, both for the Bangladesh market.
Recently, however, it sold :its furniture-making: activity for a:cash amount equal to: about: 30%. of ‘Miller
Sharp's market capitalisation. This. was done in.‘order to concentrate on what the: directors see as the
company's core activity in agricultural supplies. Since the directors can. see no: investment opportunities, a.
decision has been made: to use the cash to restructure: the company's finances. Three possibilities:have been.
proposed.
(1) Purchase aid cancel some of the:company’s:loan.stock. .
(2) Purchase and cancel some of the-ordinary‘shares.
(3) Pay aspecial’ dividend. রি
Some-combination of two or 811.01 01636 possibilities might be:acceptable (0 the directors. AN
When, the: directors: met to :discuss the: use of the cash in one or. :more of the ways mentioned above, the P
following-comments were made. u
The finance director —"We've always been modest diyidend payers in the past, so our shareholders R
would probably welcome a large-dividend.'
The-production. director — 'This is a good: opportunity. to get:rid of some-of the loan ‘stock.burden. and
push up our share: price.’ v
The marketing director — 'T feel that it would be better to hold on to the cash; redeeming capital in. this
‘way will make ‘us look weak, and adversely affect-the share: price. Instead of redeeming some: of the:
shares, why don't we maké a bonus issue and so give ‘the shareholders a share. of the réserves in ‘that.
The directors ‘are to. meet next week.to make.a final decision on precisely how the cash is to. be used. The.
chief-executive has-consulted you on.the matter.
Requirement
Make ‘notes ‘for the chief executive in advance: of next week's meeting’ on. what ‘you consider to be the
arguments for and against.each of:the-options or any combination of. options..
(16 marks)
5 TRB
You have been asked for advice by a.relative’who:has raised a.number'of points, based on articles:he:has read
recently in.his:newspaper. Here is‘a summaryiof his points:
Firstly, I read .a ‘piece. about a marketing. agency, Tollard, Royle, .Berwick Ltd (TRB), which has been
going through .a bad patch and.had been:in negotiations with. its long’ term creditors ‘to restructure its
debts. Accordingly, it had agreed to-sell off parts of the business and issue‘some more ordinary shares.
However, it has just:lost a.key customer to a.competitor. This hasn't>had much.of. an effect-on‘its.equity
‘valueas TRB is generally -well:regarded in its:industry and’has high quality staff ‘and clients. However,
its key lenders have taken fright:and:have:sold their TRB debentures via-an.intermediary to Mayo Allen
Ltd (Mayo): a multinational agency, dominant: in. TRB's market. Mayo: is now in a ‘position to take.
control of TRB, even though it owns no ordinary:shares in. the company. How can.this be? I've-always
thought that.the ordinary-shareholders were the key players.
Secondly, there has been a lot of coverage in the financial’ press.recently about shareholders’ concerns:
over the levels of dividends being paid by their companies. I thought I'd read somewhere (or“perhaps:
you told me.a’while back) that the dividend payments are irrelevant:, What's the situation here?
Requirement.
Prepare:answers to your relative's questions. (10 marks)
Now go back: to the Learning. Objectives ‘in the Introduction, If you are satisfied you. have: achieved. these:
‘objectives, please tick them off,
Equity sources. and:dividend policy | 3.005)

ATSwers to linicrnciive qnesiions
Answer. to Interactive question’l
6cU .
(a) Number.of new*shares issued-= a = 125,000
Once trading begins. the total value-of all:shares ex-diy will be a8 follows:
Totaldividends cu(2.5m + 100,000) =CU2%6m
kK, 0.1
Ex-div price per-share:= ——— = CU5.0732
§.125m

Gain made by existing shareholders
5m.% CU0.0732 (CU5.0732 less current-CUS ex-div) 366
Gain made by new shareholders
125,000 x CU1.0732.(CU5.0732 less: CU4 cost) 134
Total gain 500
Thus; the total gain remains the same:(ie the NPV ‘of the project) but:the:new shareholders receive, in effect, a
windfall-gain by investing in.the new company.
(b) For the-existing:shareholders'to make:no gain, the-ex-div price must.remain at CUS.
cu 26m
Total shares:in*issue = 226m =5.2m
cu5
Number:of new-shares issued = (5.2—5)m = 0:2m
Issue price =©0900,000 =CU2.50:
200,000,
Gain to new shareholders = 200,000 x CU(5 —2.5)
= CU500,000
‘Answer, to Interactive question 2
The original ex-div value‘is:
10p 10p 10p ,
— +5 + CWT ~... ete.
14111.
or:more simply (89408 3:0610618109):
10P _ cur
0.1
Paying an extra 110 of ‘dividend one year later (nothing else changed), the’ present-yalue would be:
Op | 10p + 1p + 10p: +... etc
4.4 1.7 1-8
As the 10p dividerid.in. one year has been reinvested at the shareholders’ required rate-of return (10%)'to earn. 1006
1,1 = 1 1p one year later, there is no increase in wealth ie zero.NPV and the present value ofthis new stream-must
still be CU1.
S06 | ‘Financial. Management

Answers to প্র 1৮0330
1. JETHRO LTD
Initial workings
(0) গে
Present market value per-share cum-dividend 5:80 6
Less: current:dividend (0:80) টু)
Market price ex-dividend 5.00 A
v0.80 e
(2) Shareholders’ required rate of return, -০০5.০0 (হ
= 0.16 oF 16% R
(3) CU
Existing annual, dividends (80p:x 5,000,000) 4,000,000
Add: net cashireceipts.from project. 140,000
Revised:annual dividend estimate from tl. onwards 4,140,000
(4). .Revised market capitalisation.of-company, ex-dividend, after accepting project
04,140,000 _ cu25,875,000
0.16
This figure-is the same‘regardless of the’method of equity finance:used.
Note: The shareholders’ required rate of return has remained, at 16% becalise the-tisk of the firm is perceived
to‘be-uinaltered,
(a) Rights.issue and shareholder.gains
Number of shares:issued = a x 5;000,000
=200,000.
New market price ex-dividend = n29,879,000
5,200,000
= CU4.976
CU'000
New ex-div:market capitalisation 5,200,000: CU4.976 (subject'to- rounding) 25,875
Original ex-dividend market capitalisation’5,000,000 x:CU5.00 (25,000)
Increase 875
‘Less: cash subscribed.on_.issue 200;000 x CU3.50. (700)
Net. gain. made 175,
The gain made equals the NPV of the project at 16%, ie 175,000,
(b) Public‘issue at.CU4.00
Number of shares issued = CU700,000. +4
= 175,000
Total shares-after issue = 5,175,000
Equity'sources and-dividend policy | 307)

Ex-dividend market value of-company = CU25,875,000

র্‌ cu OF

‘Market value’ per’share after‘issue.ex-dividend = 0 25,875,000

- 5,175,000
= CUS.

The present shareholders make:no gain. or loss. Their shates were originally quoted.at CUS ex-dividend

and,rémain.at’that figure after the issue.

The new shareholders make a-gain of CUI per share;.a total gain of:

175,000. x. CUT =CU175,000

(c) ‘New issue:price
There are:various ways of solving this part of:the.question.
Tf the new shareholders are to. make noigain, their share value will settle 30016 price of CU700,000,
CU

Value. of whole company*ex-dividend 25,875,000

Less value:of new‘shares (700,000)

New value of original shares: 25,175,000

There are:5,000,000.original shares. Therefore,.new value per share-is

cu:

cu 25,175,000 = CUS.035
‘5,000,000

New shares:should be issued,at' CU5.035

They-will then-show no-gain.

Gain made by existing:shareholders =:CU0.035 x.5,000,000

=:CU175,000:= NPV of project
(a) Practical differences between the three;sources. of finance.

(1) Various transactions costs -are involved. with 'the options. The: retention of: earnings is. costless,

whereas the‘issue of shares:can cost.a significant:amount, particularly when issued,to the general,
public. This would make.retentions: preferable.
A further transaction cost of importance is that of the: shareholder ‘selling shares. If he has a
‘consumption. preference-such that he.requires cash now, he may. prefer a dividend.to:a capital, gain,
resulting from retention and:reinvestment.in; projects, since-to.realise the: latter he will have to sell
‘shares which, will.involve:brokerage..

(2) ‘Taxation.is different:depending on whether, the: company finances: itself by retained. earnings, or
pays:full dividends and:raises money by share:issue.

‘From.the individual's point of view dividends are subject .to‘income.tax which,;may .be:at-a higher’
ate than the basic:rate:

Capital gains are likely to be taxed.at.a flat rate subject to the annual-exemption, but:payment can
be-deferred until the sale.of the.equity.

(3) ‘Imperfect information available to :investors: will have:an.important effect. As regards the-issue of
shares to the public, ‘it would not be possible in. general.to-sell shares ‘at,their theoretical maximum
‘price, since investors may.:not: feel confident that the ‘firm. will earn the predicted :returns. Of
‘course, this could ‘work in the opposite way:if. investors overestimate’the value:of the:company.
Imperfect information also has an impact. on. retentions. In theory this should ‘not. affect. a.firm’s
value.but the:dividend is:frequently taken as:a-signal-of how the firm:is expected to:perform. Thus
a drop in.dividend could well depress share'prices: below their ‘true value’.

In general the ‘imperfections’ stack-up in favour of financing’by retained. earnings, ‘provided this
does not have. adverse consequences for the market. This’ is borne.out.by the real world in. which
over 95% of investment using equity’shareholders' funds is financed by retained earnings..

S08 | ‘Financial. Management

(a) Market:capitalisation
Cost of equity shares = 0.60. 1.05 + 0.05
6.30
= 0.15 or 15%

PV of future dividends without the project 0611৬) ০,300
Add PV of extra cash receipts’ used to increase:dividends রি
Year. 1 CU300;000 x 0:870 261 9
Year 200500,000 x 0:756 378 IH
Year 3-CU300,000 x 0.658 197 a
PV of dividerids with project:accepted 7,136 PT
Thus the, market capitalisation.of:the company rises to CU7,136,000. 5
(b) Shareholders’ gain

“Market capitalisation with-project 7,136 T
Market capitalisation without project (6,300)

Less cash subscribed for'rights issue (620)
Gains made by:shareholders 216
(c) Net present’ value:of project
Cash: flow. Discount PV
CU'000. factor @ 15%. CU'000.
Year 0, (620): ‘1.000 (620)
Year ‘I 300. 0.870 261
Year 2 500, 0.756: 378
Year 3 300. 0.658 197
NPV 216
(Gains:made by shareholders = NPV of project:).
(0) Shareholder's gain, taking ‘up rights
(i) Value:of company after project‘accepted = CU7,136,000
‘Number of shares in issue = 1,1 million
cu.7,136,000
Price per share after rights issue = 1.1m
= CU6.4873
Effect on holder of 100 shares
CU
Value:of shareholding:after issue 110 x €U6.4873 713.60
Value‘of shareholding before‘issue 100 x CU6.30 (630:00)
Increase in shareholding value 83.60
Cashisubscribed for issue 10 x CU6.20 (62.00)
Gain made 21.60
(ii) Value.of company after project accepted = CU7,136,000
‘Number of’shares in issue = 1.2 million
Pricé:per ‘share after rights issue = CU5,9467
‘Effect on holder of 100 shares
CU
Value of shareholding.after issue 120, xCU5.9467' ‘713.60
Value:of. shareholding’ before-issue 100'x CU6.30 (630.00)
83.60
Equity'sources and dividend policy | 0309.

Cash:subscribed 20 x CU3.10 (62.00)
Gain,made 21.60
(e) ‘Price of:rights
0) The-shareholder ‘should hope to sell his:rights ‘for the difference between the.rights: price and the
‘share's final.value, ie
CU(5.9467-— 3.10) = CU2.8467
(ii) Effect on holder of ‘100 shares
CU
Value.of shareholding after issue 100 x CU5.9467 594.67
Value-of shareholding before:issue 100'x:CU6.30 ((630.00)
‘Decrease in value of'shareholding (35.33)
Cash from‘sale-of rights 20-x-CU2.8467 56:93,
‘Net gain 21.60
(f) Minimum price of.rights
Tf the shareholdersis not’ to:make.a loss, he must recover CU35.33 from.the sale-of the rights:
The.rights should. therefore: be sold for 30 each, ie: CU1.7665 each.
3 SOUTHERN INDUSTRIAL SERVICES LTD
(3) Net present value:of projects
& == 2m -#(0.75m x 2.283) =-CU0.288m
৪ =—2m+(0,65m x 3.352). = CU0.179m
C =~3m+(0,8m.x'3.352) =~—CU0.318m
0 =-Jm+(0,5mx:2,283) = CU0.142mi
As there-is sufficient capital to undertake all positive NPV projects, the company should invest in B and
D and-use:CU3m.
The dividend under ‘the Modigliani, and Miller policy is. the residue, ie CU5m - CU3m. = CU2m. It
could also be argued thatrunder M&M's assumptions any dividend would-do, as shortfalls of cash could
bereplaced.by new equity-issues.
(৮) Notes:for board meeting
(i) Modigliani and Miller proposition
M&M. suggested that, under the assumption of a perfect capital market, the dividend valuation,
model would give the-share price-exactly. ‘It followed that if'the share. price was the-present value
of future dividends, the actual pattern of those dividends:did not matter to-the share price as long
as the present value of ‘these,remained-unchanged..For:example, shareholders-would be indifferent.
‘in, valuing a share between_a constant_stream of. dividends and a large lump sum dividend paid at
some point:in the future, if‘the value:in present value:terms werethe. Same.
M&M: therefore concluded that the only way to enhance’the share price was. to ‘invest: in positive
NPV'projects, as these would result-in a,higher present value of dividends reflecting the.beneficial
project.cash-flows being paid‘out.as: dividends.
The: current dividend ‘should be:whatever was not, needed for investing in positive: NPV projects
(residual dividend policy).
M&M‘ suggested. that any shareholders who: require income. (ie dividends) and who are unhappy.
with; the level.of dividend paid can, sell some of: their shares. These. shares: will have. increased in.
value-as,a_result.of the company:accepting positive NPV projects.
This.is in effect the manufacture of “home:made’dividends.
No. loss of wealth would 16901083111 a perfect.market there are:no transactions. costs.
£310) | ‘Financial. Management

(iiy Reasons the company may not pay a,CU2m dividend
o ‘Imperfections in the capital market
The-above analysis assumes a perféct- capital market-and that any. imperfections will impair
‘thé conclusion. Thé major'imperfections that may cause-Southern Industrial, Services. Ltd to
reconsider its. dividend are discusséd below.
® ‘Information. content 6f dividends
Tn-a perfect market investors know everything about a company and. ifs intentions, and, in
particular. know 00808 dividend'is reduced only in order to fund attractive projects.
‘Tivreality, information is restricted and.many ‘investors may not'bé.aware’Of the:reasons.. ৪
The. dividend itself. is taken. as an important: indicator .of company health, and. cutting ‘the ~)
dividend from its previous fairly constant. level. may convince. the ‘investors of problems’ in A
the company: iP
Tf enough shareholders decide to sell their,holding the-share price will drop: v
° Tax:preferences of shareholders 5
A perfect:capital market:assumes ‘indifference between<income‘in the.form.of dividends and
capital gains‘madeias the.share price rises..
In reality, however, the different tax positions of investors will mean. that some prefer v
dividend income, while.some prefer an increase-in,share prices.
০ Transaction costs
The. buying. and selling’‘of shares is:not‘costless in the real world.
‘Therefore, the 'manufacture’ of home-made dividends would. cause .a_ loss: in. the: wealth, of
shareholders, leading to a.preference:for payouts (dividends) rather than retentions.
০ Clientele.theory:
Tt follows that: Southern. Industrial. Services Ltd should discover’ whether its shareholders
prefer dividends or capital gains.
However, ‘as the company has been following ‘a policy of paying out-most: of .its profits: as
dividends for a number of'years, it.is.likely to have attracted those investors. (or the:clientele)
who prefer this policy:
A.change to one of retaining profits in order to give a, capital, gain may well be unpopular
with; these current ifivestors, and may prompt a; wide ‘trading of the shares. as they are
replaced. by-ifivestors who prefer'a policy of rétention.
© Preference‘for cash now
‘Some investors will prefer 00316 the:dividend now, rather than rely on an increase in future
years.
‘Th a perfect market-this will be-fully reflected in. the discount;rate: (cost. of equity) used and,
so bé compensated in the:share price;.in-real life this.may not be so.
e Other sources of finance
‘While there are‘arguments for continuing’ to’ pay out:nearly all the profits as:dividend, it:must
be: recognised that viable: projects need funding, and ‘that using: retained earnings is far
cheaper than any other source of equity finance.
However, the company currently has no debt, and finance. could be raised. with a.réasonably
cheap .redeemable:or,irredeemable:debenture.
Management, however, normally consider: retained earnings to be more. convenient ‘than.
‘external equity..or debt, and ‘it is likely ‘that the company will want to. retain some of the
CU5m profit:for projects and for unexpected ‘needs.
e Project estimates
The.calculation of the dividend depended-upon the net present-value ০016 projects, which in
turn.depended upon estimates:of the.cash flows:and the-company'’s-cost of capital.
Equity:sources.and-dividend. policy | 311

Reassessment of any of these estimates: may. lead to a different dividend, and the company
Inay want to undertake sOnie.sensitivity anal ysis.on these net’présent values.
° Future fund raising:
Tf the firm is-‘about to embark ‘upon a major expansion. programme, jit.is likely to: need
external equity in,the:near future.
Jt could therefore be unwise: to cut dividends too sharply, as this could ‘undermine:
‘shareholder confidence in the new management and. make ‘later issues of ‘new equity’
difficult.
4 MILLER SHARP LTD
Notes for chief executive on proposed uses of. funds received
In. advance of:next week's meeting I have set:out below the arguments:for. and ‘against the three proposed uses.
of the funds: received from the sale of our. furniture production division. Where ‘not referred to.in. considering
the’ major proposals, I-have also set out the arguments for or’against the specific suggestions’ of the board.of
directors.
Preliminary. observations
The sale of otir furniture. production division. has narrowed ‘our ‘drea of operations and. we have lost the
benefits of diversification. Miller Sharp's earnings are subject'to greater specific sk’ than. was’ previously. the
case and.its earning’ are likely to be mote-volatile.
As a manufacturing concern Miller Sharp. has significant tangible assets. However, as a mariufacturing
company ‘we also have significant fixed costs. ‘This indicates high operating gearing and hence relatively
volatilé-retirns..
WACC and shareholder wealth
If, the cost of capital behaves as the. traditionalists propose, and Miller Sharp has moved beyond its-optimal
capital structure, redemption of debt‘finance may lead to.a:reduction:in the cost;of capital.
This, in;turn, could.lead to an.increase in,shareholder, wealth.
The traditionalists would argue: that shareholder wealth will fall and. the cost: of capital. rise when, debt is
repurchased if Miller Sharp is‘currently:at:or. below. its optimal.capital structure:
Modigliani and-Miller have shown that (assuming perfect capital :markets) ‘the cost of capital will rise if the
gearing ‘ratio:is reduced.
In:addition, shareholder wealth will fall by the present‘value.of the.tax:savings'lost.
Repurchase: of “shares and payment ০68 special dividend, leading to incréaséd-gearing, will have*the opposite
effects’ to those. described.above foriredeeming debt.
Finance risk:and bankruptcy
The repurchasé of loan stock: will lead to a reduction in financial gearing:: This will reduce the: financial risk,
experienced.by Miller Sharp, making bankruptcy: and its associated costs,léss likely.
Repurchase: of. shares and payment ‘of'a special dividend will reduce the relative value of equity from. its
current: level and hence increase relative financial. gearing. This-will increase.the finance risk experienced by
Miller Sharp:and hence the risk-of bankruptcy (and_associated costs).
Cost of equity
With.a reduction in.financial gearing through repurchase of.loan. stock, shareholders should’ perceive, that the
volatility and’ hence risk ‘of dividends has reduced (the company. ‘will ‘not. be committed to fixed interest
payments. out of variable earnings). This should lead to-a reduction,in the.required return and hence cost. of
equity capital.
The reverse‘is true with repurchase of shares or payment of. a-special dividend.
Tax
53 172} | ‘Financial. Management

Whilst paying interést on debt. may be: tax, deductible, and hence 1630 to tax savings, this benefit is only
experienced if Miller Sharp is ‘in, a'tax-paying position, The reduction. in debt finance: makés tax exhaustion
less likely:
The redemption of debt is unlikely to lead. to significant: tax. payments for ‘the debt holders: It :is hence
relatively efficient from the personal tax. perspective.
By increasing relative gearing through repurchase of shares or’paying a special dividend.rather than use the:
cash to-generdte: earnings, the company has increased the risk of tax:exhaustion.
The repurchase of shares is treated as a distribution. for tax. purposes (to the extent that the sum paid for the এ
shares exceeds the-nominal valué). An élement-of the proceeds is hence: subject to income tax.in the hands of
the'recipient. ও
Since: dividends are’ assumed to be received net of: lower. rate tax, many shareholders: will prefer, to realise AY
what is currently share value as a dividend. This :is because. a ‘capital gain. will, be received without any- [1
associated tax credit: v
Market perceptions 8
The production director has suggested ‘that Miller Sharp's share price would rise:in:response to’a reduction in
debt finance. This may be true ifthe markets perceive Miller Sharp to be excessively ‘geared and.share prices
reflect the:cost:of financial ‘distress: 7
It is probable ‘that: the ‘markets: would receive the news: unfavourably. Issuing debt is seen. as a sign.of
confidence regarding future earnings capacity and favourable:investment opportunities..An early ‘redemption
of. debt could’ be seen as an indication .of reducing future earnings or a lack of feasible investment
opportunities. This would exert:a downward pressure on the share price.
The sum employed to repurchase shares’ would. be:significant. Demand for’shares would be likely tozincrease
the:share price.and hence:shareholder wealth. This:may, however, be temporary.
The ‘marketing director. has' suggested that the repurchase of. shares. would. be taken as:a sign of weakness by.
the’ markets. This: may well be the case if investors perceive the company to lack. -viable investment
opportunities. A-downward pressure:on the share'price:is likely to’result.
Assets
The company has: significant tangible assets which can be’used as .security’for cheap debtifinance.. To redeem
debt would fail to utilise the assets fully:
The repurchase of shares and paymentof dividend ‘would not affect the level of debt finance and.the company
would continue to employ its assets éfficiently-as security ‘for cheap debt.
Control
The repurchase 01 shares. can be used to buy out dissenting:minorities or manipulate control. of the company
to'the advantage ০16 board or a particular group of shareholders.
The proportion of shares: to be repurchased is significant, and Miller Sharp-could come under the control_of a
single-or. small. group‘of shareholders. This may significantly limit,the board's freedom of operation.
The payment.of the dividend would not disturb, the effective control of shareholders. ‘This 'may-be.favourabl y
received by some investors.
Repurchase‘of debt — other
Since:future: interest, commitments are lower, dividends and earnings per share would, be:expected ‘to increase
above-previous. levels. This:should exercise’a positive influence:upon:the share price.
The ‘loan. stock contracts ‘would need (0 be examined to ensure penalties for redemption ‘are not too’ severe.
‘Should. the proposed ‘mechanism, be repurchase ‘from. the market, brokers’ fees would need, to be accounted
for:
Payment of dividend — other:
Dividends often give signals. to the market. Such a dividend may be perceived as a signal. of extreme
confidence .in.future.earnings and. dividends, and hence:exert a positive influence:on the market share price.
Shareholders ‘may prefer. to get’ a.return on their shares:now’(in the form. of a special dividend) than have an
uncertain capital. gain in the: future. It should be. noted that the’ gain. can, however, be made certain by
shareholders‘selling shares.at. the: current: market'value.

Equity'sources and-dividend policy | 53 1:3)

Assuming perfect capital markets, Modigliani and 11121104531 10 00401 order, to maintain, shareholder
wealth 4 compariy'should inimediatély distribute any surplus‘funds it cannot‘usefully invest.
Since:no favourable investment opportunities exist-for Miller Sharp, shareholder‘wealth is best:maintained by
an ‘immediate: distribution. (It should be noted that in theory shareholder wealth is also maintained by
repurchasing shares.)
AS compared with other. alternatives, the payment of a dividend would not involve transaction costs (brokers"
fees, etc). Shareholder, wealth isthereforé not-depleted..
‘Miller Sharp has always paid a. modest dividend, according to the finance director. Inyestors may. well have
been attracted to Miller Sharp precisely because of this policy,
Should ‘Miller Sharp suddenly pay’ an enormous dividend shareholders will, become. concerned that its
dividend policy does not suit their. needs. The consequent sale of shares would lead to a depression in, the
share price.
The payment of, such a large dividend would almost certainly indicate to. the market, that. Miller Sharp lacks
favourable investment; opportunities.. The market may then revise: its expectation of future returns and. the
share price may-fall.
Bonus.issue
(a) Arguments in,support.of. proposal.
By retaining the.cash:the company will ensure it.preserves liquidity:
A. bonus issue will increase the: number of shares in issue without in. any way ‘altering shareholder
wealth or the‘market value.of.the company...
The.drop‘in share-value. renders the:shares more.marketable:as the .unit-cost’per share’becomes smaller.
(b) Arguments against proposal
Earnings per share. and net assets. per share would fall. A drop in these indicators may naively be
interpreted as. unfavourable.
Unless Miller Sharp can reinvest-the cash proceeds profitably, simply holding-on to the cash will result
in, a reduction of shareholder wéalth. The more Miller Sharp delays in distributing the surplus cash the
less is:its.effective value to the-shareholders.
A bonus issue-does:not address the question. of dealing with the cash.
Combinations
The arguments for and against using each option individually have already been discussed. There may,
however, be particular. benefits to combining some of the options available.
(a) Combining repurchase of:shares and debt
Tf Miller, Sharp:has a. known optimal. gearing level, combinations of. share:and debt repurchase could be
used to achieve thisioptimum.
This: would.lead tothe lowest possible ‘cost of capital for Miller-Sharp-and probably result in a gain in
shareholder. wealth.
By repurchasing: smaller volumes of both debt and equity Miller Sharp: may not have’to pay as large: a
‘premium over equilibrium ‘value 8916 it attempts to. repurchase ‘a very high ‘volume of either debt: or’
equity (as effective:demand is lower).
(b) Combination.of share:repurchase.and.other option
By exercising only a partial repurchase of shares Miller Sharp would be. better able to manipulate
control of the company: Miller -Sharp could simply buy out any-dissenting minority‘willing to ‘sell their
‘shares on.favourable terms.
5 TRB
(a) It is likely that ‘TRB had problems ‘in servicing (paying interest on) its borrowings and its long term,
creditors (quite possibly banks) would also Have been concerned that they might not. get back the full
amount'that.they lent'to TRB. Thus they were keen to get as:much of their:money back.as’possible. The
debentures ‘were sold on and the long: term. creditors: were, presumably, satisfied with the negotiated
4 | ‘Financial. Management

price: However the:new debenture holder (Mayo) does have considerable power and if-a company, such
as TRB, is in “financial distress” then.Mayo can take control of its assets and in.effect-take control of
TRB as.‘a whole, Shareholders are indeed the owners of the business and normally. yield the: most.
power. However, in.certain.situations (ie distress) that power can shift-over'to the debt holders. As the
debt market becomes more liquid and companies suchas Mayo take advantage of that situation:(buying
the debt:of-distressed companies). what. happened to TRB will-happen more-frequently,
(b) Traditional school of thought
Shareholders. would prefer dividends today rather than dividends or capital gains iin, the: future. Cash
how is more certain‘than-in ‘future.
Future payments would,be discounted at.a higher rate-to'take account of uncertaihty. 6
If current dividends are reduced so that investment. can occur then the market: value ‘will fall, 35 the [1
discount rate increases. However does risk increase-over time? A
Residual theory of dividends e
Company should reinvest earnings ‘rather 'than pay’a dividend -as long -as the rate of return achieved ‘is E!
higher than that of other investment opportunities which have similar levels of risk and ‘which are R
available to.the shareholders. Otherwise pay:a dividend.
‘This can cause erratic dividend.payments and these may not.meet:cash demandsiof shareholders. Erratic
dividends may give bad.market signal. Sharp fluctuations in dividends can lead to sharp fluctuations in v
share price.
Modigliani and Miller
MM.‘ contend that.share value is not determined by dividend policy, but by future earnings ‘and the level
‘of risk. They argue that the amount of .dividends paid. will. not affect: shareholder wealth providing the
retained earnings:are.invested.in profitable investment opportunities.
Any loss in dividend:income’will.be-offset by gains‘in share:price:
Shareholders: can create home made-dividends and 00110034600 1915 on the:company's:dividend ‘policy.
So if cash is:needed, sell some shares‘instead.
(00161159069
Informational content: —: dividends mean. that management: is confident of the: future: (the signalling
view). Clientele effect — investors have a preferred habitat. That is, they seek a. company with a.
particular dividend policy that suits them. If shares are unpopular becalise of inconsistent policy then
the share price will suffer.
Equity'sources and-dividend policy | 3 1°5)

ee A eee
2১০০৭ bs AG a ae Fe ০ ১ SSE Eee ES বি ৬১০০
ও ৯১ -১১ ।
ক ও সম
Coe Oe ee
See 11111018521) | ১ খা ae bead a ieee ক KT ANG EE
oe eel nee কি
SSS ee ee সং
CHAPTER 8
Business: planning, valuation and.
restructuring
Introduction.
Examination.context.
Topic List

1 Valuation and.restructuring

2 Writing a business plan

3. Cash,forecasts

4 Financing requirements
Summary and.Self-test
Answers to Interactive questions
Answers to Self-test:

| m0

Introduction
Learning objectives Tick off
e ‘Explain the different types of financial restructuring that-are relevant at various stages of a business যা
‘life-cycle

° Calculate values:for businesses'and shares: চা
০ ৩০00৩010076 main Components of.a business plan |
e ‘Identify-a company's liquidity position by‘producing forecasts [|
‘© Analyse a;company's’financing requiréments using.appropriate evaluation techniques [|
The syllabus:references that'relate to this.chapter are: Id, g, m, 3i,.j.
Syllabus links:
The focus on. high, level decision-making, such as corporate restructuring, business valuation.'and the analysis
needed to:support both will be:taken.further in the:case study.
In.the exam, candidates.may have to draft:a straightforward business plan for a ‘given situation. Either-separately or
asi part of this, candidates. may have to identify. and’ evaluate: different financing options and’ give: a
recommendation. In.addition, they’may’ be:required, to. carry ‘out a valuation. of a business using :different methods,
perhaps for the purpose of’stock exchange listing.

£32.) | ‘Financial Management

1. ২310130011:3110.-1650 10000111112
4 e .
795) Section overview
325,
৬২১৯৬] ০ Organic growth achieves expansion.of the business at a 111688160-0806 and.cost.
& g Pp P
© Acquisition increases the:speed 068 business‘ development but creates a:number, of issues.
° The maximum price to pay=MV-°of combined business.— MV of bidder before bid.is made.
০ There-are:a number of different ways to value-a business, broadly based on its assets, and income.
e _ The:méthod of payment will have an impact-on how-attractive the bid is..
e _Inyestments'typically have, a strategic rationale,
° MBO = various:parties act to achieve:their own.agendas,
০ Qutsourcing — another corporate structuring device.
1.1, Introduction
৩ Businesses will typically use-restructuring devices to help them.to grow and,.having.reached maturity, to help
to:stop them from going. into decline
° Almost all firms seek: to grow. ‘organically’ at some stage, by. starting: up new businesses from. a.zero. base,
possibly using retained earnings asithe source of finance ও
৩ Mergers and. buying: parts of. other businesses can, however, be a faster. approach to growth. These-can also be A
useful:approaches to diversifying’as:a means of avoiding decline:as products pass’ maturity RP
e —_Sell-offs, including management-buy-outs and. buy-ins, canbe ways for the. business, to:dispose of areas that.it- v
does, not: warit.to.retain - it may:not want:to retain them because it sees:them as going into decline, or they aré &
a ‘poor fit with the business, 0188 a.means to raise cash to pursue other, more profitable: activities R
° Mergers, takeovers,,sell-offs etc all.require:a value to be put.on'the business iz
1.2; Organic growth, |
This involves ‘the ‘retention. of. profits and/or the ‘raising. of new finance (equity and/or debt) to fund internally-
generated projects, eg:‘new product:and/or market:development.
Advantages
The advantages of. organic growth over growth. by‘acquisition-are that:
e The Costs.aré:spread over, time (although it may-involve higher costs-than acquiring-other companies)
০. The rate of change within.the firm is likely ‘to’ be slower and therefore-avoids the disruption and. behavioural
problems that.can be:associated with acquisition
Disadvantages
However,compared with acquisition the disadyantages:are that:
০ — It:may be more:risky than:acquiring-an established.business, eg risk:of failure:in an'unknown market:
৩ The process may be too’slow, so that the firm fails.to:exploit:the. opportunities available
© There may be. barriers to entry-in‘new markets
13 Acquisition
Here the bidder:company acquires the target:company either in. its entirety or by buying sufficient shares ‘in, the
target-to- exercise control.
The acquisition may take-the-form.of a takeover.or merger. For legal,and.accounting purposes the difference.can_ be
important but it. is not part of the Financial Management, syllabus., In. the real world the terms, are. used
interchangeably. to cover anything which results -in the: combination of two-(or.more) businesses.
Some.of the:reasons why businesses combine.are as follows:
Business planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 5321

০ ওুষাযাণানুয
Described as the 2 + 2 = 5 effect, this is where:a firm looks for combined_results that reflect a better rate of
return, than would, be. achieved by: the same: resources: used, independently as: separate operations. The:
combined performance is greater than the sum.of:the parts.
Synergistic savings may-arise in a‘number of different:aspects ০68 company's value chain
— .Administration savings
— Economies of scale
— ‘Use.of common investment‘in:marketing, new: technologies, research and development
— ‘Leaner’‘management structures
— Access'to’under-utilised assets

° Risk reduction
For-well-diversified shareholders already owning’shares ‘in both businesses, then putting them together does
not reduce systematic risk :so 2.+ 2 = 4. Howéver; cheaper borrowing may be possible because’ the
combination of the:firms may result,in more stable-cash flows, reducing thé-risk-of bankruptcy and. reducing
the:risk;to lenders. WACG would.also ৮০1৩0110200.

2 Reduced competition
Merging: with:or acquiring another firm reduces or eliminates competition.in a market.

০ Vertical:integration
Acquiring.a key supplier of materials or a key customer.may-safeguard the position of a business.
The key question:is whether shareholder wealth increases. The empirical,evidence suggests

© Synergy isnot automatic, it must be pursued.
Consider:
- Sharing activities, for'example two subsidiaries:sharing:the:same distribution system.
— Transferring skills, for example:.a subsidiary good at marketing could transfer its skills to other

subsidiaries,

— Restructuring..Nursing ‘sick businesses back:to health and:then selling off‘to make:short-term. gains.
Synergy can be particularly difficult-to-find if the two businesses are-very different: exactly-where could ০০৪15
be saved or expertise transferred?

০. Victim. shareholders:are often the-only'consistent'winners..

e Bidding company shareholders often lose: out, for example
— ‘Pay'too much (bid premiums)
— :Costs too ‘much (bid fees)
— Synergy. insufficient to offset these costs.

ও Often.in the interests of managers, -not:shareholders:

1.4: Valuation
‘1.4.1, Reasons for:valuation

(a) ‘To establish:merger/takeover terms.

(b) To be able'to make:share purchase/sale decisions.

(c) To value companies.listing on,the.stock-exchange.

(0) To value shares sold .in.aprivate:company.

(6) For tax*purposes.

(f) ‘For divorce:settlementts, étc..

(g) To value subsidiaries for.disposals, MBOs, etc.

1.4.2. ‘Asset-based approaches:
(a) Historic-cost (book:value)
5৮ | ‘Financial Management

0) Balance sheet-value of equity.
(ii). Meaningless: because:historic’cost #:market' value.
(b) Net realisable:value
(i) NRV‘of assets:less liabilities.
বা) ‘Minimum acceptable value to owners.determined to sell.
011) Problems
e° —_ Estimating NRV of assets (NRV of specialised:assets may, only be determinable by acfual sale).
০ 7২০001108116%-009(8,-1001080015 costs, tax.
০ Ignores: goodwill.
০ Particularly useful for controlling interests.
(c) Replacement cost
(i) Cost of:setting up business from scratch.
(ii) “Maximum ’price’for, buyer.
ii) ‘Problems
© _—_ Estimating replacement:costs.
০ ~—- Tgnores. goodwill, or if‘not, this difficult-figure- would have to be valued.. r
° Particularly useful for controlling interests. iC}

d General
(d) A
(i) | Assets are more certain’ than income. Income is generated only. it assets are well managed, which is by P
no:means.certain. v
01). Useful-for asset'strippers. 5
(iii) Service. businesses. Often have very few tangible assets so asset methods ‘would place very little value
‘on business. Most.value in a'successful service industry would reside-in.its:goodwill.. za
নার : 8
14.3; Income-based'approaches
(a) General
(i) ‘Forecasting problems — all-income.methods.require’an-estimate of. the future.
(ii) Type of business — more appropriate than assets‘ for'service businesses.
(b) Present value of future:cashflows
Theoretically superior; ‘as the value of:-any asset:is the: present value of the:cashflows:it.generates.
An_.acquisition would satisfy the:shareholder wealth objective if:
0) The’present value of the-incremental.cash:flows.discounted.at a:rate appropriate to their'risk exceeds the
acquisition.cost; and/or
(01), The risk associated. with. the bidder’s.:cash ‘flows is reduced such ‘that.a lower-discount.rate is.appropriate,
‘increasing the present value of the bidder's cash flows.
The maximum price:a bidder should. pay-for.a target:is:
Market value of combined businesses less:market' value of bidder before bid.is made.
Anything more:than.this decreases the wealth:of the-bidder's shareholders.
(c) Problems
(i) ‘Estimating future.cashflows.(particularly. synergy).
(ii) “Estimating-discount:rate (risk).
011) Time horizon —forever?
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 533)

=| Interactive question 1: Acquisition: (Difficulty, level: Easy),

Le A Ltd ‘generates constant‘annual cash flows‘of CU15m. The:appropriate:discount:rate for these flows.is 20% pa. It

. plans to make a bid for the entire: share capital of B Ltd. If B. Ltd were: acquired the combined businesses would
generate constant annual. cash.flows:of CU20m and the:appropriate discount:rate would be: 16%: pa.

Requirement

What is’the maximum price-A Ltd.should pay for all of-B Ltd's shares?

See.Answer at the end-of this chapter.

Part‘of this maximum price’arises because there is:risk reduction, -ie. within:the CU20m. annual cash flows.A's flows.

are:now being:discounted at .16% rather than. 20%, so some‘risk.reduction has taken:place.

Tt. is. not unusual. for the maximum price. to be above the: current:market value of the target. Reasons include: the

following:

০ Synergy. In Interactive question 1 an extra CU20m.— CU15m = CU5m of flows 1s discounted. Some of this
may result:directly from B's activities and.some may be:as a.result-of synergy (see above).

০ Risk’ profile. The overall risk of the:combination. may be less’ than.the.risk ‘of B alone.

: >) , Interactive quéstion-2: Maximum price [Difficilty level: Intermediate}
. Le Arrow Ltd.is considering. purchasing the:entire share.capital of Target:Ltd.

Arrow operates on a five year planning: horizon and’ believes that ‘Target will be able to generate ‘operating

cashflows (after deducting funds for necessary reinvestment) of:CU1 million per annum before‘interest' payments:

The following:information is also relevant but-has-‘not been‘included in the above-estimates.

0) Target's head.office premises can be. disposed of and its. staff. can, be relocated. in Arrow's. head. office. This
will have no:effect on the operating cashflows-of either, business but will generate an immediate'net revenue
of:CU2 million.

(2) Synergistic benefits. of CU200,000 per annum. should be generatéd by the.acquisition.

(3) Target has loan stock‘with a current:market:value of CU1.5 million<in issue. It.has no other.debt.

(4) -Arrow’estimates that.in five years’ time it could, if necessary, dispose:of Target:for an amount:equal to five
times its annual cashflow.

Arrow believes that:a WACC of 20% per annum reflects'the risk of the cashflows associated with the acquisition.

Requirement.

Calculate the:maximum price to be paid'for Target:Ltd. Ignore taxation.

See Answer at the end. of this chapter.

(0) Use of. Price-Earnings ratios in acquisition

0321] | ‘Financial Management

নোলসথি Definition
পন The: Price-Earnings (P/E) ratio‘is the share'price'divided by the earnings per:share.for a company.
The ‘above: definition. gives ‘a clear'indication of how’a P/E ratio ‘is calculated. The .interpretation:of the ratio
however,.is not as clear cut:.
Broadly. speaking; if. a. company‘has:a great deal of potential to generate: growth,, its share price: will reflect
this: investors: look to future:returns. If that high price-is then.divided by its historic earnings, which will be
low. rélative to the‘anticipated future profits, the consequent.P/E ratio will be high.
There can, however, be .a number of-reasons for.P/E ‘ratios being high ‘or. low, for example if a.company is.
considered very high তাও, this) can be factored into the price: giving ‘a low \P/E ‘atio.
A large, stable, mature business with excellent: cashflow. generation. but very limited growth potential, eg’a
utility company, might-also haveia low P/E ratio.
Nevertheless, a generalisation is that a high. P/E-ratio indicates. a. high degree of. investor: confidence in. the
future:prospects of the company:
Similarly alow P/E,ratio:implies the opposite.
An alternative way: in which investors derive the. maximum. price. in practice<is to usé P/E: ratios, father-than,
présent values. .
The value of:a company‘can. be found as: টে
Value:= P/E x Earnings A
Basically, the:value is based.on;the purchase:of a:number of years earnings. টন
The problems with using P/E ratios. for this: purpose. 876: B
) ) R
e Estimating maintainable future earnings (particularly synergy). What-if earnings have been erratic over
thé.last few years? fs
° Accounting: policies can be-used to: manipulate earnings figures. P
© Selecting a suitable P/E ratio to. value’ unquoted companies (there-.is;. of course, less need to’value quoted.
companies as they have.a market price already).
— Find a similar quoted company (same-industry, size, gearing, risk, etc).
— But watch for distorted P/Es (as above).
Adjustments, downwards for non-marketability of unquoted shares are often made (totally arbitrarily). In
other. words, the value -is teduced, to ‘take into account how difficult it can be to sell unquoted. shares.
Typically’; to ‘/; is-deducted'from the initial -value'to-account for non-marketability.
| Re) } Interactive question 3: P/E yaluation., (Difficulty level: Intermediate],
, i You are given the.following information regarding Accrington Ltd,.an-unquoted.company.
(a) Issued ordinary share capital.is 400,000 25p shares.
(b) Extract-from Income;Statement-for the yearended 31 July:20X4
CU CU
‘Profit. before taxation. 260,000
‘Less: Corporation. Tax (72;800)
‘Profit.after:taxation 187,200
‘Less: Preference-dividend 20,000
Ordinary dividend 36,000.
(56,000)
Retained profits ‘for year 131,200
(c) না06711300 applicable to a‘similar type of business (suitable for. an unquoted.company) is 12.5.
Requirement
Value 200,000 shares in Accrington Ltd on a P/E basis.
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 325}

See Answer af the end ofthis chapter.
; | Interactive question 4: Maximumi price (Difficulty, lével: Tnterniediate}
৷ দু Price Ltd wishes to acquire 'the entire share:capital of Maine Ltd. Details of current-earnings.and P/E ratios are. as
- follows:
Earnings. P/E
CUm,

Price. Ltd 50 20

Maine Ltd 20 15

It:is believed that as a result of synergies the combined earnings would. be: GU75m and the market would apply a.

P/E of 18 to the:combination.

Requirements

(a) Whatiis the maximum amount:Price Ltd should,pay for Maine Ltd?

(b) What-price-are’Maine.Ltd's shareholders likely to accept?

See.Answer at the end-of this chapter.

Dividend valuation

A future dividend,stream can be valued.using:the:following formula:

4+
Value = ০০01+9) 9)
(k,-g)

Where.dy is:the-dividend.at time 0

g is.the. growth rate
k,.is: the ০০৪৮০০80109

Dividend valuation:is useful for non-controlling. interests (that:is, a'few‘shares).

Probléms include:

° _ Estimating future dividendsiand growth

° Estimating k, (risk)

e Adjustments,for, non-marketability., The model is often used, for valuing shares in non-quoted companies and.
then an arbitrary downwards adjustment made to reflect the lack of marketability. (as with the P/E ratio
approach)..

o Ttis not: very-useful for valuing controlling interests.

| eS) | Interactive question 5; Dividend: valuation [Difficulty level: Intermediate],
[6 Claygrow Ltd is‘a company which.manufactures.flower pots. The:following data are available.
- " Current'dividend 25p:per share

Required. returnon equities.in this,risk:class 20%:

Requirement

Value.one share in Claygrow. Ltd under the following:circumstances.

(i) No growth in dividends:

(ii). .Constant.dividend growth of.5% per annum

(iti) Constant dividends:for.five years and then.growth:of 5% per‘annum to perpetuity

(iv) Constant dividends:for.five years and then sale of.the share for CU2.00.

32601 | ‘Financial Management

See: Answer at the end: of this chapter.
SVA valuation
The seven. key factors which drive shareholder value were covered in Chapter 2..A company valuation can be
obtained through,forecasting future free:cash flows ‘using. these value drivers: In; order, to 00 this 1015 important to
understand that:'there are two relevant periods to consider. Firstly, a period. where the company enjoys ও
competitive advantage over its competitors. This could be-a'period of up‘to:ten years.:in.some:cases. Secondly there
will be-a period after, the competitive advantage’period. In,this second ;period 'the cash:flows may be given.by one
of the following-methods.
© Cash,flow.in perpetuity with no growth,
° Cash,flow.in perpetuity with growth
০ Given:as a lump sum, through using a:P/E ratio at the-end of the competitive advantage period
Once these futuré free cash flows ‘have*been, éstimated, they will be discounted at the ¢urrént WACC to ‘obtain a
present value. Any;short-term investments that are-held by the company should.be added.to this present-value.
Note thatthe free cash flows ‘show the cash. available to the providers of debt. and equity, ‘so the market value-of
debt should be:deducted.from the:present value to get:the value:of equity: ;
Ay গজল +4
Mark.Ltd expects to.have a-‘competitive advantage over its competitors for the next three years. It.has the following A
estimates’for its value drivers’for this period and.beyond. [2
Competitive advantagé period Béyond u
Year d 2 3 4+ R
Sales growth % 7 4 2 0
Operating: profit margin. % 10 12 12 12 r
Tax rate % 21 27 21 21 8
Incremental non-current asset investment 5 3 2 0.
(as a % of sales‘increase)
Incremental working.capital.investment 2 2 2 0
(as a % of sales increase)
Other-inforniation ig as follows?
© Currént yéar'sales are: CU380m
© The current WACC:is 10%.
e Depreciation ,for, the current: year will be. CU7m, increasing by: CU0.5m each, year. in the cormpetitive
advantage period
e —_ Replacement;non-current asset expenditure is. assumed to be equal to depreciation
° Short-term investments are held with a value:of. CU2.5m
০ Debt.held by Mark Ltd has a nominal value of CU120m-and has a market value of, CU95 per CU100.
Calculate the value:of equity using the SVA method,
Solution:
The information.above-can be'used step by'step to calculate the free cash flows
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 5327)

Competitive advantage period Béyond
Year: a 2. 3 44+

CUm CUm CUm. CUm
Sales (W) 406.6 422.9 431.3 431.3
‘Operating profit 40.7 50.7 51:8 51:8
Tax (8.5) (10.6) (10.9) (10:9)
Depreciation 7.0 75 8:0 8.0
Operating cash flow 39.2 47.6 48.9 48.9
Replacement:non-current asset:expenditure (7.0) (7.5) (8.0) (8.0)
Incremental.non-cutrent asset expenditure.(W) (1,3) (0.5) (0:2) 0.0
Incremental working capital-investment (W) (0.5) (0.3) (0:2) 0.0
Free-cash flow 30.4 39.3 40:5 40:9
‘Discount factor, 0.909 0.826. 0:751 0.75.1 -x.

1/0.1
‘Present’value 27.6 32.5 30.4 307.2
Total present value =:CU397.7m
Value.of. short-term:investments.=.CU2.5m
Market-value of debt:=:120m x 95/100 = CUI14m.
Value-of equity = CU397.7m.+CU2.5m— CU1 14m = CU286.2m
WORKING
“Year. 0 T 2. 3 4+
CcUm CUm GUm. CcUm CUm:;
Sales (increasing at given rates) 380.0 406.6 422.9 431.3 431.3
Sales increase: 26.6 16.3 8.4 0
Incremental non-current asset expenditure 1.3 0.5 0.2. 0
Incremental working capital.investment 0.5 0.3 0:2, 0
1.5; Other factors'in valuation’
1.5:1, Quoted'companies

9 Existing ‘market -value. (that: is, stock: market. share’ price) ‘normally ও minimum. (why would .a shareholder
accept less than the current market value?)

e _ Premiums’for bulk buying/control

1.5.2, Income valuations:

e Surplus assets. The estimated, NRV Of: surplus. assets (ie those not generating income) should,be-added to the
income value to determine overall value.

© Trade and non-trade investments. Trade:investments: aré held long-term and dividends etc from these should.
be included in, eafnings to Calculate income valuations. Non-trade: investinents are those held short-term.
Dividends ete should be excluded from earnings used. to calculate:income valuations.and the:market value:of
the:investments added on at‘the-end.

° Freehold properties. The view commonly’taken is: that a company’ with the freehold interest in its premises
has made an investment. Ownership of.the:freehold.is not:necessary to carry on:the business - rented premises
could. be used. Thus iin. valuing the company.it is common to ‘charge market:rent in ‘calculating. earnings for
the purpose‘of income-valuations and,add the value of:the:freehold. on; separately atthe end.

SB | ‘Financial Management

০ Directors’ remuneration. Frequently the level of remuneration, paid to directors’in private companies is based,
on. tax: rather than commercial considerations. Earnings :should -reflect a fair. commercial, reward for their
Services forthe purposes of Valuation..

° Preference. shares and debentures. Earnings. before charging interest and. preference dividends can be
capitalised at'the WACC to find the value:of al/'the capital. Total capital’ valueless the: market value:of all the
preference ‘shares and debt (or'redemption value'if no-market value exists) leaves the value of the equity:

e Human résources. Will key employees leave. after acquisition thus reducing the value of,the business?

০. Service. contracts. Do key staff have service contracts with long ‘notice ‘periods? Do unwanted staff .have
service:contracts' with long:notice periods and high payoff clauses for early termination?

e _ Restrictive covenants. Do the victim's debt agreements contain Clauses for immediate-repayment of: the debt:
in the event of a,takéover?

০ Other. bidders will.tend to push up the price.

1.6; Methods of payment
Several forms of offer:can. be:made:
—
Cash ‘For: ০ More attractive'to seller, e Certain amount.received C
- 11
Against: ০ Liquidity issues ০ Possible immediate tax issues A
Share for For: ৩ Préserves liquidity ০ No-immediate'tax issues P
share Cog v
exchange ০ Sellers can undertake:not.to sell. B
the shares fora period. to.ensure, R
their continued cooperation-with
the:buyer. or
Against: 6 Increased dilution ® Uncertain amourit-received 8
¢ ‘Dealing costs to:’sell:shares
Loan stock- 012 ০ Avoid. dilution, © More.assured return.than.on shares
for-share ae Os _ ড্র ; ;
exchange Against: ¢ Gearing problems © May prefer equity
In practice: a combination of methods may be. used, eg the main, form of' the bid may be the share-for-share:
exchange but’with.a cash element to act.as:a 'sweetener’.from the target's point of view.
লি এ. see ৮২০১২০১৯১০০ gel emg ta ge ১০২০০ +
7) Reasons for.divestment,

For every buyer there:must’be.a sellerand therefore divestment is as:common as‘investment. A number‘of reasons

can,be. put forward:for. divestment:of'a subsidiary:

৩ Lack. of fit:within the existing group-of companies —-often a subsidiary that:is unprofitable or. incompatible
with other. operations'is sold:to.allow the firm to concentrate on activities in-which-it-is more‘successftil

০ The subsidiary.is too small:and does.not warrant:the: management time devoted to it

° / belief that’the individual parts of the business can be:worth.more than the whole: when. shares are’ selling at
less than their‘potential value — the so-called conglomerate discount. This‘is sometimes expressed'as 5— 1 =
5! This.does not:necessarily:involve immediate divestment but.can:lead.to part’of a business being transferred
to’a new company which.is still owned.by:the existing shareholders (known.as a.demerger.or a spin-off — see:
below).

e ]015 trading poorly but selling-the subsidiary.as a going:concern-may be-a cheaper alternative than putting it
‘into liquidation, particularly when rédundancy and winding-up costs are-consideréd

° The ‘parent company may. ‘need. to improve: its liquidity. position, particularly when. a. good. offer ‘is
forthcoming

Business planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | SED

© Highly acquisitive organisations: view companies as portfolios of assets and dispose of companies as risk and,
returns change — they frequently acquire them with. a view to retaining some aspects of the business and
selling:the remainder to.recoup much_of their initial-investment

The following:sections consider briefly how divestment may be-achieved..

1.8: Management buy-outs (MBOs):

The part of the business being sold (eg a subsidiary) is bought. by’ its existing management from: the parent.

company:

1:8:1. Parties to.an MBO:

The various parties for an MBO and their-involvement:is typically (butnot-always).as shown below.

. ‘Venture capital ০09 financiers
Selling company Managers নাই ।
voy provider (eg bank)
Subsidiary Subsidiary| Subsidiary
1 2 3 ;
to be.sold
_ Equity &
Equi vo
quity “debt Debt
New company
New company’‘will acquire either
— thetrade and assets, or
- the.shares:of the subsidiary to be sold
1:8.2: Financing the MBO:

It:is not‘uncommon,for the various parties to:want.an.exit route‘at:some point:in the-future, by selling:the business,

possibly. by floating the firm on the-Stock Exchange, thus helping to.repay most:of the initial:finance.

It is: this. initial finance,, however,, that can cause.problems, because large amounts of. debt ‘are often used in the

financing ‘package. Hence ‘the alternative term to MBO of leveraged (or geared) buy-out. In. times .of recession

these large amounts: of debt.have-often led to MBOs‘failing, ie insolvency.

The two’following’common types of debt are typically (but:not exclusively)-used‘in MBOs:

০ Junk bonds — these are high.risk because’they rank behind other :forms of debt in terms: of claims:on assets.
This results.in.a high cost.of. capital for this type of debt,

8 Mezzanine: — similar ‘to junk bonds but the coupon rate is reduced. by allowing. the possibility: of equity
participation either through an option to conyert. the debt to shares or by\attaching ‘warrants. Warrants are
options, which give:the:investor the right’to buy'shares in the-future,

1.8.3, Management buy-ins.(MBIs),
Essentially the same as an MBO but the business is bought by an external. group of ‘managers’ who have not
previously been connected with running the business. Often used. ‘when. the shareholders ina family’ owned
business need an-exitroute from:the business,
1:84 Sell-offs
The sale, :normally for cash, of part of the operations of.a-business to.another established business.:Only: the assets
may be sold, the seller'using the cash to settle any remaining: debts.
330) | ‘Financial Management

ey Interactive question 6::MBO: (Difficulty level: Intermediate],
Le Can.Ltd is divesting:one of its ‘subsidiaries ‘and the:managers of the subsidiary have offered an attractive price: of
. CU20m subject:to'confirming:a finance package with a’venture capital, provider ¢VC):and a bank:,
The finance package-is as follows..
CUm.
Equity from. managers 2
Equity.from. VG d
Mezzaniné finance from VC 7
Sénior:debt-from bank’ 10
‘20
What-are the objectives. facing. the: various parties (sellers, managers, venture: capitalists ‘and the bank), ‘and how
might they:manage their.specific risk?
See: Answer at the end/of this chapter.
1.9: Other arrangements: চু
1.9.1, Spin-offs or demerger’ ৪
Diagram showing .a demerger: Co
A
'Before: Sharetiolders T
| E
'Holding compatiy R
Sub | 5082 :Sub3 5084. P
After: ‘Shareholders:
Holding:company
‘Sub |) 5৬৮০. “Sub.3, 5৮৮4৭,
The shareholders are given shares in-the‘new entity pro rata‘to their shareholding. in the original parent.
e No:change:in ownership occurs, ie the shareholders.now have shares in two separate businesses
৩ The spin-off. gives separate: corporate identities. Shareholders: can choose: whether they wish ‘to realise. their
investment.in.one:or other of the two businesses or remain shareholders:
e The spin-off may avoid the-problem of conglomerate discount:discussed above
০. It: may 06 ৮960 39 a.device to avoid.the takeover’‘of the’ whole. business: by separating: a particularly attractive
part.using the'spin-off
1.9.2: Repurchase‘of own shares.
Reasons for repurchase‘include:the following:
e Enhancement of share price-— there may 86 an_incredse :in the price: of ‘the shares remaining because: the
supply is:réduced and because éarnings per shate may be enhanced where cash,used forthe repurchase was
not previously earning an adeqiiate return
° Escape.route —.it provides a mechanism for shareholders:in unquoted companies.to;sell:their shares
Business’ planning,.valuation‘and restructuring | 3.3 [|

০ Gearing - if gearing: is. less: than some target level, because of over-retention of: profits, a buy-back: can be:
used to:reduce equity and to increase:gearing

1.9.3; Liquidation (01 winding-up)
The ultimate corporate:restructuring device.is to-liquidate the business: This results inthe passing of the assets, net.
of liabilities, to the shareholders in proportion. to their individual shareholdings. Usually the assets are. first
converted into cash, but assets other than cash can be distributed. to shareholders. Windings-up are typically
initiated:
° either by. the shareholders, because the ‘purpose for which: the business: was founded has, by intention or

otherwise, come to an end;.or

e by the creditors,. because ‘their:interest:and/or redemption payments are overdue

1:9.4 Outsourcing’
Though not strictly a. corporate ‘restructuring device, outsourcing can often have a’similar effect: Outsourcing is
acquiring the ‘goods:‘and :services needed by the: business from another business,,‘rather than from ‘within. All.
businesses outsource and it is:not:aznew phenomenon.
What is .a. recent: development is the extent of outsourcing. The logic of extending outsourcing is ‘to enable. the
business to concentrate: on what, it sees as its core activities, while: buying in specialist goods and ‘services from
experts.
Thus a. motor car manufacturing business ‘might. not employ staff*to Operate its personnel function, but instead
outsource it to 8 specialist hdman-resources: business: This‘ might be because the managers See car. manufacturing as
their‘specialist.skills area, ‘so they leave:providing the.personnel:function.to others who:specialise in that area..
Other, examples:of outsourced functions:are IT systems, accounting, catering and property maintenance.
Advantages of outsourcing include. access to specialist skills at a lower cost to the business than would be:
incurted by. having specialist:staff-on.its-own, payroll., Another advantage:is that:the business can use its investment,
capital for:its-core:actiyities..
Disadvantages include the potential-loss of ‘control present in any sub-contracting arrangement..
As with all corporate decision-making, outsourcing :should be undertaken to the extent. that ‘it has the effect. of
enhancing the wealth of shareholders.

2, ‘Writing a business'plan.
=| Section overview

aod ০ -A.business plan reflects 4.company’s:planning process for'a given time horizon.

০ Business plans will include:sections.on background, history, prospects and, a-financial assessment:
2.1, Introduction
A written business plan is-a result-of:a process of planning, and sets out:
০ The-direction of.an-organisation
° Strategies chosen
° The:.background to the:decisions made
© Their practical implications and outcomes
In. a.broad sense, planning is the process’ of deciding in advance what is to be done. When‘planning. takes place in
an organisation it involves ‘an. explicit evaluation .of alternative. courses .of action and communication of. the
decision process to others:
An organisation's. survival depends on.maintenance of an income ‘stream, :and ensuring. that it has the resources —:
people, equipment,, premises, materials. and.funds — with. which to-carry out its activities. Changing. environments
mean that:planning is a continuing. process. A: business‘plan:must’be.updated regularly to:maintain its usefulness.
5332] | ‘Financial Management

A business plan-can be produced for any period or scale of activity. Most-organisations have long-term plans of:

about'ten years as well.as business plans for three-to five’ years and. operational plans’ for'the-next:twelve months,

The document does not need 0 8০ over long, but must justify its financial forecasts. This means. that sufficient

weight must’ be given to:

° Marketing;.sales‘and growth forecasts

© Competitor analysis

০ Risk analysis

০ Cost-control.

2.2; Format:.of the:business-plan:
‘2.2.1, ‘A standard format: Layout, supporting documents and'appendices
Front:sheet: Title: page: foreword or-disclaimer
Contents . Executive:summary

2 -History'and background

3 59101) statement and objectives.

4 Products or-services: r

5 Market information GC}

6 1২689081068 employed, management and operations A

7. Financial information, risks:and.returns P

8 Summary action plan containing milestones vT

9 Appendices'— past.accounts, CVs, market‘research, brochures; technical data etc. B
R

Executive summary The.éxécutive suirimary is typically. a one-page: document that allows the reader, to L
‘grasp the nature and purpose of the business plan quickly and understand the detail 8
by: providing a‘context.

History and. background This:section.is designed to provide-an:insight:into.the business's goals, .strengths:and
weaknesses, provide a context for decisions by describing. its origins and ‘trading
record.and:for:new ventures, to:describe how the.business idea developed..

Mission statement:and Mission statement indicates how the business’ wants to be seen — its long-term goal,

objectives whereas objectives, long and short-term, state.‘what the organisation intends to
achieve during the.plan period.

Products and services A, brief statement. of products and services provided and customers, together with

offered, any unique selling: proposition. differentiating the product*from:compétitofs, as well
ag any planned further development:of the product or service.

The,market ‘Distribution and promotion, methods, type. of. buyer, demographic description,
location, occupation, quality required, etc, competitor pricing and a, comparison ‘of

; products and services, .market.characteristics and.trends and market research.

Information about © Key people and management ‘team — CVs, job descriptions, succession, plan,

resources.employed, organisation chart:

management.and টব । টন _ . . ১,

operations ০ Rremises-—. Address, type of tenure, planning’ permission, size, facilities, costs
© _Operations:—.A broad.description.of how the goods or'setvices are provided

Financial information:in a _A financial summary should_highlight:

business plan
ও Past and present revenue
© Profitability
© Key aspects. of the balance:sheet and cashflow
© Impact of any identified,risks and contingency plans for them

Business planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 5333)

° Amount and timing of finance required
০ The-offer-to.the equity investor;.if applicable,-including:exit-route
° Anticipated gearing
০ ‘The:purpose:of any finance sought:
A business plan‘ will typically include the following forecasts:
® Cashflow in monthly-intetvals for the-fifst: year of the plan,
© — Revenue forecast in monthly or longer intervals for the first’ year
© — Sales forecasts supporting:the:income projections
© Financial forecasts in quarterly of annual intervals up to five‘years
It will often be:appropriate to include sensitivity analysis:and. 'what‘if’ analysis:
e Breakeven calculation-— especially useful when sales are uncertain
e Setting‘up costs — a separate statement for a.new venture or activity
e Projected balance sheet if there are significant-changes to the capital-structure
‘or assets
e¢ Payback .Period, Net Present Value or Internal Rate of Return if used in
decision-making
Action plan An action ‘plan.is-a detailed, statement of the.main actions: needed to carry-out: the
‘strategy;.and a'summary should be‘included:in the business plan.
Appendices Some types of detailed information. are: better included :in an. appendix. — for
example:
০ Technical, product:information
° Specialist market reports
° =>. CVs of key people:
০ Organisation, chart
° Audited accounts for past three: years
০ Names of accountants; solicitors, bankers
3. Cashi forécasts
Section overview
{EEF
él ° Cash; forecasts. provide an early warning of. liquidity: problems.
° _A.forecast balance sheet helps'identify any cash-shortfall (or'surplus).
° A forecast cashflow can_be derived. by‘adjusting the profit:figure.
‘3:1, Introduction to cash-forecasts
নোলথি Definition:
A cash "budget ‘(or forecast) is a detailed budget of estimated cash. inflows. and ‘outflows incorporating both
"revenue and capital items.
00 ‘Financial. Management

Cash, forecasts (or budgets) provide-anearly: Warning of liquidity problems, by estimating:
° How muchreashiis required
৩ When it‘is required
° = How long-it-is required for
৩ Whether‘it'will be.available.from.anticipated sources
A company must know when it:might‘need:to borrow and for how long, ‘not,just what amount-of funding could
be required. This area was introduced in. Management Information, where cash management. and working capital
were explored.
The balance: sheet-based -forecast ‘is produced for management. accounting purposes and so ‘not. for external
publication or statutory -finaticial reporting. It. is' not an estimate of cash. inflows and. outflows. A. number: of
sequential forecasts can be produced, for'example, a: forecast of the balance sheet ‘at the end of each year’ for the
next five years.
As an estimate:of the company’s balance sheet at a future diteé,, a balance sheet-based forecast-is used to, identify
either the cash,surplus-or the funding shortfall in the-company’s balance sheet:at'the.forecast date.
| টা)
Balance sheet-based forecasts can be-used to 88$69$-016 scale-of funding-requirements or cash surpluses expected A
over time, and to act as.a-check:om the realism:of cash flow-based forecasts. P
v
A’‘balance sheet. estimate. calls: for some. prediction of the amount/value. of. each item. in'the company's balance B
sheet; excluding cash ‘and short-term ‘investments, as these are what we: are trying to. predict. A forecast is R
prepared by taking:each item.in the balance: sheet, and estimating what its value might, be at the-future date. The
assumptions used are:critical, and the following guidelines. are suggested.. 1
BB
Intangible non- If there are any,. they should ‘be taken at their. current value unless there ‘is good reason
current assets‘and for another treatment.
long term investments
Property, plant-and Some:estimate of asset:purchasés (and disposals) will be-réquired.-Revaluations can be
equipment ignored.as-they-are:not-cash flows.
Current assets Balance sheet: estimates of ‘inventory and. receivables ‘are sometimes based on fairly
simple-assumptions, such-as the following:
ও Same as:current amounts. 11519 unlikely if business has boomed.
০ Increase by a certain percentage, to allow for growth in business volume.. For.
example, the. volume. of receivables. might be: expected to. increase: by a similar
amount
° Decrease by a certain percentage, to allow for. tighter management control over
working capital
০ Assume, to be a certain pércentage of the company's estimated. annual sales
revenue. for:the. year
০ The: firm can assume that the length of the operating’ cycle ‘will. more or ‘less
‘remain the same
| রী ‘Worked example: Current assets.
|| @ If.a firm's customers take two months to pay, this relationship can be’ expected to continue. Therefore, if total
annual salés,are CU12m and.customers;take two. months:to pay, receivables at the year end. will be 2/12:% CU12m =
CU2m.
If revenue ‘increases to’ CU18m, and the collection period stays ‘at:two. months, receivables will, amount fo. 7/12:
CU18m = CU3m. Similar relationships might be:plotted for inventory and.hence purchases and payables.
Business planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | হে

(0110110119101110105
Some itemising of current liabilities will. be necessary, because::no single Set of ‘assumptions can. accurately
estimate them collectively:.
৩ Trade payables.and accruals can be estimated in a:similar way to current assets, 35110103060 above.
০. Current. liabilities include. bank loans’ due :01. repayment within’ 12 months. These can. ‘be identified,
individually,
৩ Bank: overdraft facilities. Often there will. be no overdraft. in, the forecast balance sheet... Any’ available
overdraft facility can _be:considered when the:company's. overall cash,needs are identified.
° Taxation. Any corporation tax payable should be’ estimated from anticipated profits and based on an
estimated percentage’ of those profits.
e _ Dividends payable: Any ordinary dividend payable. should be estirnated from anticipated profits, and any
preference dividend payable can be:prediéted from the:coupon rate of dividend for the company's preference
না Other creditors can be included 10175001760 and_are of significant:value.
Non-current creditors
Non-current creditors are: likely to consist;of non-current loans, bond issues, debenture stock and any other non-.
current, debt finance: Unless the company has already arranged. further, non-current borrowing, this. item, should.
include just. existing long-term debts, minus debts. 0130 will be repaid before: the balance sheet, date (or debts
transferred from long-term 700 short-term creditors). For the purposes 01 this exam: loans ‘will be shown at: their
nominal valué-in‘the balance:sheéet.
Share capital_.and ‘reserves
With. the exception of accumulated. profits: (retained: earnings), the estimated balance sheet:figures:for, share-capital
and other reserves should be the same.as their, current-amount, unless it is expected or, known that a.new ‘issue. of
shares will take place before the balance-sheet date, in'which case the total amount:raised (net of. issue expenses)
should’ be:added to the share-capital/other:reserves total.
Accumulated profits
An-estimatetis required of the.change in the company's accumulated ‘profits in ‘the period up:to the balance sheet’
date. This reserve:should be calculated as:
০ The existing value of.the-retained earnings
e Plus further retained profits anticipated in the period to the balance. sheet: date, (ie post. tax profits minus
estimated dividends)
‘3.4 Compiling a balance sheet
The various estimates should now be brought together'into a balance sheet. The figures on.each side ০6006 balance:
sheet will.not. be equal, and:there will be-a balancing:figure:being:the amount of:cash,in surplus/deficit.
o ‘If there'sis a surplus of share capital and. reserves over net assets (total assets ‘minus total liabilities) the
company will be:forecasting'4 cash surplus.
eo If there is a surplus of. net assets over share: capital.and reserves the company will’be. forecasting -a funding,
deficit.
|: ~Worked example: Funding deficit’
Alpha has an existing: balance sheet and an estimated, balance: sheet ‘in; one: year's: time before. the necessary extra
, funding is.taken,into account, as.follows:
‘Existing Forecast:after‘one year, Difference
০0000 ০0000 CU'000 ০0000 CU'000
ASSETS
Non-current-assets: 100 180
5336) | ‘Financial Management

Existing: Forecast after one year —-_ Difference
0000 ০0000 CU'000 CU'000 CU'000
Current.assets 90 100
Total assets. 190 280 90
EQUITY.AND LIABILITIES
Share.capital and.reserves
CU], ordinary. shares 50 50
Other:reserves 20 20
Accumulated profits 30 50
100 120 (20)
Non-current liabilities
5% loan.notes 20 20
Other (tax) 10 10
30 30
Current liabilities 60 90 (30)
Total equity-and liabilities: 190 240
Solution: What is the funding required?
The company is expecting: to increase its total assets .in.the next year by CU90,000.(CU280,000. - CU190;000) but
‘expects accumulated profits:for the year:to' be CU20,000 (CU50;000 — CU30,000):and current liabilities to.increase
by CU30,000. There is an excess of net assets over. shareicapital and reserves amounting. to. CU40,000.(CU280,000
— CU240,000), which, is ৪ funding deficit. The company must consider’ ways: of obtaining. extra cash (eg by ee
borrowing), to cover the deficit. Tf it Cannot. it will.neéd to kéep its assets below*the forecastamount, or to“have
highier short-term payables. ও
A revised projected, balance sheet can then be prepared by introducing thesé new. sources of funds. This should be A
checked, for realism (eg by ratio analysis) to ensure that: the proportion of'the balance sheet made up by:non- P
current:assets and working capital, etc is. sensible. T
Ej
Balance sheet-based forecasts have-two.main uses: R
০ As longer-term, (strategic) estimates, to assess the scale: of funding requirements or cash.‘surpluses the fr
company expects:over, time 8
‘ To act as a check on the realism of cash flow -based. forecasts (The: estimated. balance sheet. should be:
roughly consistent ‘with the net cash. change in the cash budget, after. allowing for approximations in the
balance sheet forecast assumptions.) ,
3.5. Deriving cash flow:from income ‘statement ‘and'balance sheet ‘information:
The previous: paragraphs‘concentrated on preparing:a forecast balance:sheet, with estimated ‘figures:for:receivables,
payables and inventory. Cash requirements might therefore: be presented as the ‘balancing ‘figure’. However, it is:
possible to derive a forecast’figure for cash flows’using both the balance sheet:and income.statement. ‘The profit
from operations :is ‘adjusted. first of all for items not involving:cash, such as depreciation. This is further ‘adjusted
for changes:in.the levels:of working:capital (eg:receivables and. payables) to‘arrive‘at‘operational cash flows.
This is illustrated in the:example below. For the time being, assume’that:there is no depreciation. The’ task is:to get.
from profit:to operational cash flow, by taking into account:movements:in working:capital.
: Worked example:,Adjusting profit to find cash flows,
, 4 ~ “ eee Operational
(e Profit cash-flow
— CU CU
Sales 200,000 200,000
Opening:receivables (.:.. received in.year) 15,000:
Closing receivables (outstanding at year end) (24,000):
Cash jin, 191,000.
Operational
Profit cash flow
CU CU.
Cost of sales 170,000 170,000.
Closing inventory (purchased, but not:used, in year) 21,000
Opening-inventory (used, but-not purchased, ‘in, year) (12,000)
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 5337)

Purchases in, year 179,000
Opening payables (2. paid in year) 11,000
Closing payables (outstanding.at year end) (14,000)
Cash‘out ; 176;000
Profit/operational cash flow 30,000 15,000
This may. be summarised as:
CU CU
Profit 30,000
(Increase)/Decrease:in,inventory Opening _ 12,000
Closing: (21,000)
(9,000)
(Increase)/Decrease:in.receivables Opening 15,000
Closing: (24,000)
(9,000)
Increase/(Decrease) in payables Closing, 14,000.
Opening (11,000)

Operational cash flow 15;000
In.practice; of course;-a business will make many other adjustments. The profit figure includes items which do not:
involve'the:movement of cash, such.as the annual depreciation charge, which will have-to be:added back:to-arrive
at a figure for:cash.
Both ‘receipts and payments’ forecasts and forecasts based. on financial statements: could. be used. alongside: each
other.
3:6. Quality:control-of forecasts
When. actual results differ from budget, 10 can. be tempting ‘to conclude’ that plans’ never. work out? in practice.
However, planning is'a vital management activity ‘so, if actual. results differ from the plan, 10:15 ‘important to’ find
out whether the planning processes can,be improved.
Accuracy of cash ‘flow:forecasts.can be enhanced by:
© Reviewing‘actual cash flows’ against the forecasts, learning.from. past:mistakes, and
° Preparing updated rolling forecasts or revised forecasts, where useful, to replace: earlier; less reliable
forecasts
A constant monthly amount for receipts and. payments will often indicate either, sloppy cash forecasting practice,
ora high degree of uncertainty in the forecast, since it is rare for specific ‘receivables and payables to: remain
unchanged except when there is'a formal.arrangement.
Forecast:financial ‘statements, can be constructed for a. period ‘of several ‘years, from-first year data, given:certain
assumptions.
|| Worked example: Financial statement forecasting;
। Loumar Ltd started trading four years ago:in.20X3 3110 1781108000169 components for the computer games industry.
- You have the following information:
(a) Revenue and cost.of sales;are expected ‘to-increase by: 10%.in each of: the financial, years ending.
31 December 20X7; 20X8-and 20X9.. Operating.expenses:are expected to-increase by 5% each.year.
(b) The company:expects:to continue to be liable.for tax-atsthe marginal rate-of 21%. Tax:is paid-in the same year:
itis charged.
(c) The ratios. of receivables to sales and trade payables to:cost-of:sales will remain the:same for. the next three:
years.
(d) Non-current assets comprise:land.and buildings, for which no:depreciation.is provided. Other assets used by.
the company, such.as machinery and.vehicles, are.hired.on operating leases.
(e) The company plans for dividends’to grow at 25% in each-of the financial years '20X7, 20X8 and 20X9.
338} | ‘Financial Management

(f) The company plans ‘to purchase new 03007109510 the value of CU500,000 during 20X7, to. be depreciated
straight‘line over'ten years. The company charges a:full’ year's. depreciation inthe first'year of purchase of its
assets. Tax allowable depreciation ‘at-18%:reducing balance-is available on this-expenditure.
(2) Inventoty was purchased ‘for CU35,000 at the beginning of 20X7., The value of inventory after this purchase
is expécted to-remain 80 CU361,000 forthe foreseéable’future.
(h) No decision has been made 01016 type of finance tobe used for, the expansion, programme. Thé. company's
directors’ believe-that they-can raise new. debt:if necessary.
A summary of the financial statements for the year to 31, December, 20X6 is:set.out below.
SUMMARISED INCOME STATEMENT
FOR THE YEAR TO31.DECEMBER 20X6 0000
Revenue 1,560
Cost-of sales 950
Gross profit. 610
Operating expenses 325
Interest- 30
Tax 54
Net profit 201
Dividends declared 85
SUMMARISED BALANCE SHEET.AT’31 DECEMBER 20X6 [০০০০০০০০০০০
CU'000 6
Non-current assets, (net.book: value) 750 ra
Current.assets A
Inventories 326
Receivables 192 P
Cash,and bank. ‘73 v
Total assets’ 1,341 B
oo R
Financing
Ordinary share capital, (ordinary shares of CU1) 500, L
Retained profits 0:31 December 20X5 222
Retentions‘for the year‘to‘'31. December,.20X6 116 8
10% ‘loan note redeemable 2070. 300,
Current liabilities
Trade payables . 135
Other payables (dividends) 68
Total equity: and liabilities 1,341
Requirements
Using the‘information given:
(a) Prepare.forecast'income statements forthe years 20X7, 20X8 and.20X9.
(b) Prepare'cash flow forecasts for the years 20X7,'20X8 and 20X9, and estimate the amount of.funds which will
need to be'raised by the company to’finance.its'expansion.
Notes
(1) You should ignore:interest or-returns.on-surplus funds invested during the three-year period of review.
(2) Assumecall cashflows occur 80016 start or énd.of each year-and ignore the-time: value of money.
(a) LOUMAR LTD INCOME STATEMENTS
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 5339)

Scenario ৭] Forécast
reference ‘20X6 20X7 2008 20X9
CU'000 CU'000 €U;000 0000.
Revehue (increasé. 10% pa) (a). 1,560. 1,716 1,888 2,076
Cost‘of sales‘(increase’ 10% pa). (a) (950) (1,045) (1,150) (1,264)
Gross profit 610 671 738 812.
Operating expenses (incréase 5% pa). (ay. (325) (341 y. (358) (376)
Depreciation (10% pa x-CU500,000) (fy (50) (50) (50)
Profit-from operations 285 280 330 386:
Interest (assumed constant) (30) (30) (30) (30)
Profit'before-tax 255 250, 300 356
Taxation (see working) (54) (44) (58) (72)
Net'profit , 201 206 242. 284
Dividend.(25% growth pa) (e) (85) (106) (133) (166)
Retained pfofit 116 100 109 118
Reserves b/f. 222 338 438 547
Reserves c/f, 338 438 547 665:
Actual ‘Eorecast;
‘20X6 20X7 20X8 20X9
0000 CU'000: ‘CU'000. CU'000
Share:capital 500 500. ‘500 500
Year end reserves: 338 438 547 665
Year end shareholders’ funds 838 938 1,047 1,165
WORKING: Tax payable.
Actual, Forecast,
20X6 ‘20X7 20X8 20X9
CU'000 CU:000 ০0000. CU'000
Profit before tax 255 250 300. 356
Add back depreciation: (f) 50: 50 50
Less tax allowance:(18% red./bal) (f) (90) (74) (61)
Taxable. profit 255, 210 276, 345
Tax,at 21% (b) 54 44 58 72
(b) ‘Cash flow forecasts
The 20X6 balance. ‘sheet figure: for, ‘other payables (dividends)' is simply the dividends in the ‘income.
statement. It is assumed that this will continue to be the case:in, the following three years. The annual change
in.net current assets can be computed.as follows.
Changes-in. net current,assets Actual. Forecast.
20X6. 20X7 20X8 20X9
0000. 000 CuU'000 CU'000
Inventories (scenario note (g)) (g) 326 361 361 361
Réceivables (12.31% of sales), * (০) 192 211 232 256
Trade payables (14:21% of cost'of. sales) * (c) (135) (148) (163) (1:80)
Dividends payable (85) (106) (133) (166)
‘Net current assets 298 318 297 271.
Inéréase/(décréase) in neticurrent' assets 20: (1) (26)
* Alternatively-receivables and-payables can be computed as a. 10% ‘increase each year:
The.cash flow:forecasts:can then.be.constructed..
Cash:flow forecasts 20X7 20X8 20X9
CU'000 €U'000 cu'000
Retained. profit:for,the year 100. 109 118.
Add back depreciation. (f) 50 50 50
(Investment:in ‘net current assets)/release.
of.net current assets (see working) (20) 21 26
‘Expendituré on non-current;assets (f) (500)
Surplus/(deficit) for the:year : (370) 180 294.
Cash/(deficit) b/f 73 (297) (117)
Cash/(deficit) c/f (297) (117) TI
B34 ()) | ‘Financial. Management

The: company ‘will need ‘to :find finance: of CU297,000 ‘in .20X7 but this can be Coifipletély repaid in, the:
following two years. However, interest costs have been ignored:in-this computation.
An, alternative presentation includes a detailed statement of cash, receipts and payments, an illustration, of which is
stiown in the.answers atthe end of the chapter.
(eR) Interactive question:7: Financing gap {Difficulty level: Exari standard)
Le Mylotic Ltd produces. radio controlled toys.'The:most:recent balance sheet‘of the company:is set -out:below.
BALANCE SHEET.AS AT 30 NOVEMBER 20X2
CUm. CUm CUm
Non-current-assets
Freehold buildings at cost 24.4
Less: accumulated depreciation 44 20.0
Plant-and machinery at cost 37.9
Less: accumulated depreciation 12.9. 25.0
45.0
Current, assets
Inventory 39.0
Trade receivables 20.0 .
Bank 8.3 67.3
Less payables: amounts. falling-due within one year 2
Trade payables 16.5, A
Dividends 7.8. 24,3 P
43.0 T
88.0. [৪
Capital and reserves’ R
Ordinary CU shares 20.0
Accumulated, profits 68.0 a
88.0 8
During: the year to 30:November 20X2, the-sales. revenue for the business: was'CU240m.
As a result of recent changes ‘in overseas markets, combined. ‘with: developments: ‘in technology, it: has: been
predicted that the market for the.company's products will.increase significantly:in the short-term. The directors of
Mylotic are planning to expand the business significantly during:the:forthcoming year in.order to exploit.these:new
market ‘conditions. The following forecasts and ‘assumptions ‘for. the forthcoming; year, have been prepared by the:
directors.
(i) ‘Sales for the forthcoming. year will. be 25. per cent higher than the previous ‘year.. Sales are expected to be
spread. evenly, over the-year.
(ii) ~The gross:profit. margin will.be 30 per cent-of sales.
(iii) To prepare for‘the.expansion in-output,:new machinery costing CU57m will be purchased.at:the beginning of
the’ year and‘a long-term loan will be:taken out.immediately to help finance this purchase. At the.end of. the
year, the.long-term.debt to equity ratio is:planned.to be: 1:3.
(iv). The average receivables collection period will be three times that of previous years and the ayerage* payment
period for creditors’ will be:one and.a.half:months,
(v) The value of:inyentory at theend ০016 ‘year will-be-CU18m.lower. than 30016 beginning-of the year,
(vi) Depreciation charges ‘for freehold buildings. and plant and machinery are calculated using the reducing
balance method and, will be five per cent and.20 per-cent-respéctively:, Other expenses for the périod will be
CUS54.6m. Theré will be no prepayments or accruals at the-end of the-year.
(vii) Dividends will 6 announced at'the end of the year and.the dividend payout ratio will ৮০৩0 percent whichis
in line: with previous years. The-tax rate will be 21 per cent of net profits before taxation, The dividend will
be paid after the-year end. Tax:is paid in the-same year that it is charged.
All workings-should be:in CUmillions and_should be made to one-decimal place. Workings must be:clearly shown.
Requirements
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 3.4 |

(a) Prepare-in as much detail.a8 the information allows:
(i) A forecast:income statement for the year ended '30-Novernber, 20X3, and,
Gi) A forécast balance.sheét 88 at 30 November 20X3.
(b) Comment briefly on.the liquidity and position of*the business -using the: financial ‘statements prepared in, (a)
above..
See Answers at the end of this chapter.
3.8 Sensitivity ‘analysis‘and changes in variables:
In a well-designed forecast a great number of 'what-if’ questions can be asked and answered quickly by carrying
out sensitivity:analysis and changing the-relevant data or variables. In a cash flow forecast model, managers ‘may’
wish to know the.cash flow-impact’if sales: growth per-month is:nil, 2%, 1%, 114%,:242% or.minus .1.% and so on.
However, businesses will also want to estimate the ‘magnitude of changes in sales ‘and ultimately’ profits if
economic or business variables change.. This‘ will-be:more problematic:
3.9 Changes in‘economic.variables
Businesses need to be aware of likely changes in-inflation, interest:rates and so.on. Governments and.central banks
issue regular updates and.forecasts, and the financial ‘press is:also.helpful as a source of information.
However, businesses will also need to forecast:
e া0%/:02 predicted changes will:affect demand. The links between:variables are complex and may. not be:
easy to-forecast:Businesses:should consider. separately the:effect of ‘major increases.on each type of product.
ও How the business: will respond to.changes:in variables. For example, will the business automatically adjust:
prices upwards by the rate of ‘inflation, or ‘will it: try to. hold prices? What: will its competitors do? If raw
material prices increase, will the business ‘try to change suppliers? What: effect will this have. on. payment
patterns?
:3:10° Changes in business variables:
Economic: variables will :clearly impact: upon business variables such. as ‘sales volumes or profit. margins.
Businesses need to be.awareiof the:other factors, such as changes in the competitive environment:that could affect.
these variables and how this effect might work. The original, forecast should itself have been based on demand.
forecasts, determined by market, surveys and_ statistical models based on. past, changes in demand. However, 11
factors such as taste or lifestyle: change, businesses need, to recognise this might not just.require marginal changes
in. forecasts, but. a. re-visiting. of the base data, since the changes will ‘ultimately: render: the previous surveys or
models.redundant.
4 Financing requirements
নদ .
y= Section overview
Waa,
৫2 ০ (08351.000105 will be.funded in:different ways, depending:on: whether, they-are short or long-term.
° Businesses should-haye:procedures for investing: surpluses with appropriate: levels ‘oftrisk and:retumn.
4.1, Deficiencies:
Any forecast-deficiency of cash will haveto be funded. Chapter 4 on sources of. finance explores these ‘in. detail.
The main-sources are.new equity (or preference shares) or‘increased borrowing. There will be implications of. any
changes in capital, structure for-the cost of: capital- This topic is explored in, Chapters 5 and 6. Questions. on, this
topic‘may therefore link the: materials:on all of.these chapters:together.
3121 | ‘Financial Management

০ Share capital. The firm may consider raising-‘new equity or preference share-capital. The-cost of issuing and
the time frame required for'this, together with-the level of investor confidence.in the-equity’markets: will. all.
need to be factored.into the assessment:of whether'this.is suitable.
© Borrowing.-If borrowing-arrangements are not. already secured, a source-of funds will haye to be found. 1 8
company cannot fund.its cash deficits it Could.be wound up.
০ The firm can make arrangements to sell any Short-term marketable:financial inyestments‘to raisé cash.
e The firm can. delay payments to suppliers, or pull in payments from customers. This ig sometimes ‘known.as
leading and lagging.
Because cash forecasts cannot be‘entirely accurate, companies:should have contingency funding, available from a
surplus cash balance and liquid investments, or fromia bank facility.
The approximate size of contingency’‘margin will vary from company to company, according to the cyclical-nature
of the business and the:approachi of its cash planners,
Forecasting. gives management time to arrange:its funding. If‘planned in.advance, instead of a panic. measure to
avert.a cash: crisis, a company can more easily choose when. to borrow, and will probably obtain. a.lower interest,
rate. r
Many cash-generative businesses are less: reliant on high. quality cash forecasts. If a cash. surplus is forecast, ঢু
having an idea of both its size and how: long it will exist: could help :decidé -what to do with Jit. This. could, be B
investment (Chapters.2 anid 3) or-dividend payment (Chapter’7). R
In. some cases, the ‘amount of interest earned ‘from. surplus: cash. could. create a. significant. improvement to the L
company’s earnings.. The: company might then need a forecast of its ‘interest’ earnings in. order to indicate. its 8)
prospective earnings per share to stock ’marketianalysts and institutional investors.
43° ‘Analysis
In-order'to explore whether: a potential source: of finance ‘is viable.or attractive a forecast cash flow, balance. sheet.
or-income*statement:is required.
Gq ‘Worked example: Financial decisions
KJ MAXLTD
Max. Ltd is a printing and publishing business. The business has. traded very, successfully for. many. years, largely
on the: basis of a life style magazine: which, has sold. well due to the recent fashion. for such ‘publications. The
increase in the number of similar offerings from competitors however has resulted in a need to ‘re-invigorate the:
product'range.
A plan ‘to launch new magazine titles by the-diréctors is expected-to increasé. revenue by- 10% per annum for the
foreseeable future. In order, to finance the.expansion, the:directors are:considering either-a rights issue or:new debt
finance.
The overheads:of the business should.be-unaffected by the expansion in. sales.
Other:relevant.information.is as:follows:.
০. 6166] of competitive:rivalry between .the suppliers to this industry is very pronounced, and ‘as a.result an
incréase-in direct’ costs-of only 8%: per annum is.expected
Business planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 3.4 3]

০ = The working capital-will_be.controlled:in the same fashion.as before, with no.changes. anticipated :to ‘the terms
of trade. Thus the amount of. credit taken (in. proportion ‘to revenue) and the credit ‘given (in proportion to
direct costs) will be unchanged, The increase:in'the business will require increased inventory’of CUS ‘million

Depreciation on non-current assets existing at 30: December 20X0 is forecast to be CUS,.7m. p.a. and it is
forecast.that CU10: million, of néw non-current-assets will be needéd.. This, ‘together with the new inventory;
will be acquired in the year, to. 30 December 20X1. Depreciation on these new assets will be 18% ona
reducing balance basis starting.in the year’of purchase

© The company pays tax at 21% per‘annum in the year in which the liability arises, and capital.allowances are
available:at the samé-rate:as depreciation.

e Dividends are payable the year after they are-declared. The company intends‘to maintain-the existing payout
ratio

Summary financial statements

Income statement year to 30 December :20X0.

Cu'000

Revenue 81,000

Direct costs (45,600)

Depreciation (5,700)

Indiréct:costs (12,000)

Interest. payable (1,500)

Profit before tax 16,200.

Tax on. profit at:21-% (3,402)

Profit after tax, 12,798

Dividends declared 7,679

Balance sheet.at.30. December 20X0

CU:000 CU'000

Non:current assets.(NBV) 70,200

Current.assets

Inventory 10,500

Receivables 14,700

Cash,at-bank 3,150

28,350
98,550

Capital and reserves

Ordinary shares (CUI nominal:value) 15,000

Reserves 47,971

62,971

Non-current liabilities

10%.debentures 20X5 15,000

Current. liabilities

Payables 12,900

Dividends payable. 7,679.

20,579
98,550
The proposed. financing methods are?
1 ক] for S:rights issue-at CUS per share
311] | ‘Financial Management

2 A CUIS5 million‘term loan-at 8% interést
Requirement
For the:two financing alternatives being considered by the:directors of Max Ltd, prepare-forecast.
(3) Income’statements:for the year’to 30 Décember'20X'1.
(৮) BalanceSheet 8030 December'20X1

(15 marks)
Note: Ignore transaction costs on the:issuing of new capital and returns on surplus cash invested short term,
YEAR ENDED 30 DECEMBER 20X1
INCOME STATEMENT

‘Rights issue Loan.
CU'000 -€U'000
Revenue 81,000 = 1.1 89,100
Direct costs (49,248) _
Depreciation 5;700:+-(18%. — 10,000) (7,500) টে
Indirect costs (12,000) A
Operating profit:(same:for:each.method) 20,352 20,352 RP
Interest. payable (Unchanged for RI)(1,500 + CU15m x 8%) (1,500) (2,700) ্
Profit before-tax 18,852 17,652 R
Tax at 21% (3,959) (3,707)
Piofit after tax, 14,893 13,945 r 8
Dividend (60% of profit:after taxO (8,936) (8,367)
Retained profit 5:957 5,578:
SUMMARY BALANCE.SHEET.
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 38

Riglits issue Loan.
CU'000 cu'000
Non-current assets 72:700 72-700
70,200:+ 10,000 — 7,500 depreciation
Inventory. 10,500:+.5,000 15,500 15,500°
Receivables .14,700 x 1.1 16,170 16,170
Cash (balancing. figure) 17,426 16,478.
1215796 120,848
Capital and reserves.
Share:capital 15,000 + 3,000. 18,000 15,000
Reserves b/fwd 47,971, 47,971
Retained profit 53957 5,578,
Share premium.on new-issue 12;000 0
Debentures 15,000 + 15,000 15,000 30,000
Payables 12,900 0 1.08 13,932 13932
Dividend payable. 8:936 8,367
121,796 120,848,
Note: The cash position has been identified.as the: balancing figure above. The cash flow below has.been included,
to illustrate the reconciliation between.cash.flow-and balance:sheet.
CASH-FLOWS.
Rights issue Loan:
CU'000 (0000 ০0000 CU'000
Operating: profit 20,352
Add depreciation 7,500
Tncreasé in: inventory. (5000)
‘teceivables (1,470)
payables 1,032
Net cash flow from operations 22,414 22,414.
‘Dividends paid (7,679) (7,679)
Interest,paid (1,500) (2;700)
(@179) (10,379)
Tax.paid (3,959) (3,707):
Acquisition of non-currentiassets (10,000) (10,000):
Net cash outflow before financing (724) (1,672)
‘Share issue/new loan 15,000 15,000:
Tncreasé in cash 14,276 13,328
Opening-cash 3,150 3,150
Increase in-year 14,276 13,328
Closing cash 17,426 16,478
206] ‘Financial. Management

ey Interactive question 8:'Financial decisions: [Difficulty level: Intermediate]

Le Write a report to the directors that evaluates the proposed methods: of financing for Max: Ltd (worked example

* above).

See: Answer at the end of this chapter.
iC)

A
ঢল
v
Ej
R
a
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 347)

চস সালা রী
"2 টানি
Resources)
(= Opnisgemi. fo Cupra | | ewe Garryzouctanalysis ‘i
__V . সে |”
ডে _ টম ,
13181 | ‘Financial Management

Answer the following-questions.
1. Target:Company Ltd;has agreed to be taken over.by Purchasing Company Ltd via.a share exchange whereby
Target: shareholders, will each receive:one sharé of Purchasing-for every two they hold..No synergistic gains
in.earnings aré-expected.to arise from the takeover..
Given the following pre-takeover’ details of the ‘two: companies:‘and assuming: the market. assigns a price
earnings ratio of 19 ‘to the post-takeover company, how. will the wealth of shareholders of ‘Target and
Purchasing: have changed after the:takeover?
Purchasing Target
Share price ‘CU3.00 CU1.50
P/E‘ratio 20 10
Shares authorised. 10 million, 2.5 million
Shares issued 5:million ‘1 million
2 Alpha Ltd:is ‘to acquire ‘the entire share capital of Beta Ltd. The consideration is one néw Alpha share for
every two Beta shares. The combined group ‘will save CU8,000 per annum _on.administration costs.
Extracts:from.the pre-merger budgets. of both companies:are as follows:
Alpha: Beta
CU'000 ০0000 r
Profit after tax 200 40 ডে
, ঢা)
Share. capital
P A
CU] shares 200° P
507 shares 400 u
What'is the new budgeted earnings per:share of the enlarged Alpha. Ltd? R
3 Poiniton Ltd has made an offer of one:of its shares:for every two-of Sidbury Ltd. Synergistic benefits from the
merger would result-in increased. after-tax, earnings of CU4m, per. annum. a
Extracts-from the latest.accounts of both.companies are as.follows: P
Pointon Lid Sidbury Ltd
Profit after tax CU100m. CU20m
Number:of shares’ 400 million 100 ‘million
Market price of’shares 250p 1007
Assume’ that:the'price.of Pointon ‘Ltd's shares 1965 67 200-821016 merger.
What. will be the price-earnings ratio of the group?
4 —_An:indepeident accountant‘has produced the following valuations of a private company:
CUm
(1) Historical cost adjusted for changes in genéral purchasing power 3.2,
(2) Piecemeal net realisable value 4.1.
(3) Cost:of setting up:an. equivalent venture 5.3.
(4 Economic:value-of the business 5.6
Assume that the above Valuations accord with the expectations and.risk perceptions of the‘purchaser.
What.is‘the maximum price that he should pay for the private company?
5 The following valuations relate to a-private. company. Where appropriate they reflect the expectations of the
owners.
CUm.
Discounted future cash flows 3.0
Netrealisable value-of individual assets 2.8
Cost of setting-up the’business from,scratch 2.6
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | £3.49)

Balance:sheet value of assets 2.4
What is: the minimum. value that. the owners ‘would. accept for all of their share capital assuming: that they
‘wish to realise.theirinvestment?

6 The following:information.relates to:two companies, Alpha.Ltd.and‘Beta Ltd.

Alpha. Betai
Earnings after tax: CU200,000 CU800,000
P/E ratio 16 21
Beta Ltd's management estimate that.if they. were to acquire Alpha Ltd they could.save:CU100,000 annually.
after taxon administrative costs in running the.new joint company. Additionally, they estimate that the P/E
ratio: of the ew company would’be 20,
On the basis ofthese estimates, what:is ‘the maximum-that. Beta ‘Ltd's. shareholders should pay for the:éntire
share capital of Alpha Ltd?

7 Two all-equity financed. companies have identical, business:risks. Company R is. valued:at' 0040 million and,
company S at CU8 ‘million. The two. companies. merge. via a share exchange. which. results in company R
shareholders holding 80% of the shares of the new merged. company.

As a result of synergy surplus. assets of. CUS million are sold. immediately without affecting the future.
profitability of the merged company. Half‘of the proceeds:of ‘the disposal are:invested.in a project with a:net
present value‘of CU1_ million.
What.will be the gains to the.shareholders. of company R?
8 An independent accountant:has produced the:following valuation.of a._private company.
CUm
(1) Piecemeal net realisable-value. 1.8
(2) Economic‘value.of the.business 2.5
(3) Historical cost‘adjusted for changes in.general purchasing power 2.8
(4) Cost of setting up.an equivalent'venture: 3.0
Assume that‘the above valuations accord with the expectations and risk pércéptions of the vendors.
What-is the lowest-price that they;should consider for'selling:all:the share-capital Of:the company?

9 An-independent-accountiant has used four different bases to value a company. Where appropriate they reflect
the expéctations;and attitudes to risk: of the.owners.

CUm
Economic: value:of the business 2.8:
Net:realisable valueof individual assets 3.0
Cost-of setting-up-the business:from scratch 3.1
Balance:sheet value of assets 3.5
Tn negotiations what. is the minimum. value the owners should. be advised to accept for all. of. their ‘share
capital?

10. ZAPPA LTD
You have been approached for. financial advice by: the management of. a client, Zappa Ltd, a manufacturing
company. Zappa was established ‘in 1957 ‘and formed the platform for growth.
The following:information relates to:the proposed financing scheme for‘a‘management buy-out of Zappa.

% €U'000:

Share:capital held by.
Management, 40: 100
Institutions 60 150

10% ‘redeemable cumulative: preference shares
(redeemable in ten, years’ time and.all,sold to institutions) 1,200,

350) | ‘Financial Management

1,450.
Glearing bank.
Loans: 700
Overdraft-facilities (currently. 12% per annum) 700
2,850
‘Loans: are repayable: over. ‘the next :five' ‘years in equal. ‘annual instalments. They are’-secured on various
specific assets, including properties. Interest-is 12% per annum.
Zappa is at present: part of a much larger organisation, which considers this segment: to. be no longer
compatible: with its.main line:of business. ‘This:is despite. the fact that:Zappa has been: experiencing growth in
revenue in excess.of 10% per-annum..
The assets to be acquired have a book’valuie-of CU2,250,000, but:the agreed price was CU2,500,000.
Requirements
(a) What:is’the difference:between
(i) A,management ‘buy-in’ and a:management ‘buy-out’?
(ii): A ‘sell-off':and a'spin-off'?’ (4 marks)
(b) Outline briefly the major advantages and disadvantages of a management buy-out: r
(4 marks) °
(c) Write a report.to the buy-out team of: Zappa Ltd ‘appraising the financing. scheme. Your report: should A
‘include, :inter alia, the:cash flow.implications. of the proposed'scheme. ঢু
(9 marks) E}
(dG) What problems are likely to be encountered in assembling a, financing package:‘in a. management buy:
out of 8 service company, as opposed to a manufacturing company? iz
(3 marks)’ 8
(20 marks)
11 BIGUN'LTD
The acquisition.committee: of ‘Bigun. Ltd is: considering making takeover bids.for two competitors, Klein. Ltd,
a. listed-company, and-PTT Ltd.
Summarised financial: data is given below for the three: companies.
Balance sheets as at 31 March 20X2
Bigun CUm ‘Klein CUm PTT. CcUm
Non-currént assets 50: 8.6 6.4
Current assets, 431 6.7 9.5
Less‘ payables: amounts
payable within 1 year 27 16. 3.0 3.7 3.9 5.6
Less payables: amounts
payable after 1 year 193 6.04 5.55
47 6.3 6.5
Ordinary share capital
(S0p:shares) 1 5.02 2.82
Retained profit. 30: 1,3 3.7
47 6.3 6.5
‘Notes
(1) Of which’ CU5m cash
(2) CU] ordinary shares
(3) 89%. debentures 20Y5 —.20Y8 currently trading atyCU80
Business planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 63 5'1|

(4) 11% debentures 20X2 —20X4 currently trading at CU110
(8) 7 ear 10% bank loan.
Bigun Klein PTT,
Average sales growth 20W8:—20X2 8% 10% 8%
Average gtowth:in profit after tax,and interest-on
‘medium and long-term debt 20W8 - 20X2. 6% 10.5% 9:5%
Average payout ratio 20W8— 2042. 60% 40% 75%
P/E:ratio at 31 March 20X2 18.4 18.6 Nia
Estimated required return on equity 9:5% 12% 13%
Profit before-tax and.interest on.medium:and
long-term debt. for year ended 3.1 March.20X2: CU10m CU1.5m CU1.4m
The corporation tax:rate i1s:21%.
Requirements
(a) Prepare a report advising. the main board of Bigun on the: possible cost of acquiring each. ‘of the
companies ‘using a/P/E' method, a.dividend method ‘and an asset method to value each‘of the:companies.
(15:marks)
(b) Discuss alternative: terms that. might be ‘offered to the shareholders. of Klein ‘and PTT), and. the:
‘implications of these terms for the-shareholders-of Bigun. (10:marks)
(25 marks)
12. LAFAYETTE LTD
The directors of Lafayette Ltd, ‘a ‘medium-sized private company, have been approached by’ a. large ‘public
company which:is interested in 00101039118 00611 business. The directors of Lafayette.Ltd have:indicated that
they would.like to-receive cash for their‘shares, and this is acceptable to the prospective:purchaser. They: have
been asked ৮১ (06 public company to ‘state the: price at*which they would be:willing to: sell. You ‘have. been
asked to advise :Lafayette:-Ltd.
Extracts: from the last set:of published financial statements for Lafayette Ltd for'20X2 ‘are given below.
Income statement
CU
Profit before*interest-and tax 5,556,962
Jnitérest 1,000;000
4,556;962
Taxation (21%) 956:962
Profits after tax 3,600,000
Dividends. paid — preference. 200;000
‘ordinary 1,000,000
Profits: retained 2,400,000
Balance:sheet as at 31 December,20X2
Non-current.assets CU000° 0000
Goodwill 5,000
Freehold property ‘10,000
Plant and equipment. 20;000
Investments 5,000
40,000
Current:assets:
Inventory 3,000
Receivables 6,000
Cash, 1,000
10,000
Less Payables: amounts-due within 1. year
Payables 6,000
5352} | ‘Financial Management

6,000
Less Payables: amounts:due after I: year
Loan. stock: 10;000
34,000
Ordinary share capital (CU. ‘par) 20,000
5% preference shares 4,000
Retainéd earnings 10,000
34,000
For the:year ending:31 Decembér-20X0, the profits before interest and-tax were CU10 million and in the-year
ending 31 December 20X1 they were CU8 million. The owners of the. preference shares have found a
financial institution. who will buy at.a price of CU0.40 per preference share. They ate willing:to sell_at this
price.
You are-asked to take'the: following factors.into account:in, calculating:a value:per share.
(1) The prospective. purchaser has:agreed to purchase the debentures 808 price of’ CU75 per CU100 stock.
(2) It has been ascertained that, the: current ‘rental value of the :freehold. property is CU1.5 million per
annum, and that this could be sold to a:financial,institution on the basis of offering an 8% return.to the
freeholder.
(3) The investments owned by Lafayette have a current market value of'‘CU7.5‘million. পা
(4) There is an-amount of €U1 million. shown in the .20X2 receivables: figure which is now 01008100000 be iC}
‘irrecoverable. 11
Two companies: in the same business as Lafayette Ltd’ are: quoted on the: stock market. However,. both. are A
slightly bigger in-size- than Lafayette. The most.recent-financial data relating:to the companies is given below: ঢু
Par-value Market P/E: ‘Net dividend Times Yield [|
per:share. price. ratio. per share covered, % R
of shares
x CU1.00 CU3.50 11.3 CU0.12 2.6 4:9 L
Y CU0.50 CU1.25 8.2 CU004 3.8 4.1 8
Requirements
(a) The directors of Lafayette Ltd are naturally interested in, obtaining the highest price possible for their
shares. You are.asked, based.on;the following:valuation methods
(i) 01611008986 value
(ii); the price/earnings ratio
(11) the dividend yield
to. determine the highest possible asking price for 016. shares that can. be ‘justified on the. basis: of the
available. information, and comment on, the alternative. prices’ you. jhave: ‘arrived at.
(16 marks)
(b) Advise.the directors-on the lowest price at which. they. should. be ‘willing’ to sell. (4marks)
(c) ‘Discuss the major factors that.have contributed to the popularity of management buyouts ‘and explain
why lenders:often permit-high gearing ratios.in. MBO companies. (10'marks)
(30 marks)
13 JODOCUS LTD.
Jodocus Ltd ‘is contemplating: the. purchase of 100% of the equity of Victim. Ltd, a. private company. Two
‘alternatives are. being’ reviewed,
(09 The purchase of shares of Victim, Ltd at.CU5.30 cash per-share? or
(2) The 15908 of new shares in Jodocus Ltd in exchange for’ the: sharés of Victim ‘(Ltd ‘in, the ratio of 3
Joddcusisharés for 10 Victim shares.
Both Jodocus Ltd and Victim Ltd.aré currently financed entirély by equity:-Jodocus currently has one million
shares -in issue with a, markét valué of CU20 each., Victim. has one million shares in issue. If Victim is
acquired by Jodocus, it:is believed that; increased efficiency in operations will result, and that the stream,of
net pre-tax-cash flows from operations’ will be CU1,800,000 per annum in perpetuity.
Business planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 5353]

Corporation tax at-the rate of 21% ‘is payable in. the year of occurrence. At the-end of each, year Victim Ltd
will pay out its cash surplus after’ paying ‘the corporation tax to Jodocus. asa dividend. The appropriate
discount:rate for the cash flows generated by both Jodocus and Victim-is 20%. You should.assime that all
cash. flows occur 80016 end.of the year‘in which they arise.
Requirements
(a) Compute the-increase in wealth that. will accrue-to the existing shareholders of Jodocus under each.of
‘the two acquisition schemes. (8:marks)
(b) Outline. the:practical problems that; you would expect to encounter in applying valuation models to a,
private company. (S:marks)
(13-marks)
14 GREENFINGS LTD
Greenfings.Ltd (Greenfings) is.a private-company that owns and operates a.small. chain of. garden ‘centres in,
the.Lincoln area. The company has expanded rapidly over.recent years, opening’new sites frequently, mainly
using retained earnings to finance them. ’The directors have found. there. are significant:economies of scale in.
operating garden centres and.they are:keen to expand:more rapidly by extending ‘their geographical,horizons.
The ‘directors have reason.to. believe that.Adams Ltd:(Adams) might.be.for. sale. Adams. operates’ ten garden
centres: in, Nottinghamshire.. The freeholds. of six of these sites: are owned, by: Adams, the. other four being’
leased under arrangements that expire in three years’ time. Adams is owned by two brothers and their
families. The. brothers are-in.their, sixties‘and the:directors of Greenfings believe.that a reasonable offer. would.
persuade the:directors of Adams:to:sell the company:
You are the.senior on, the Greenfings: audit and the directors have asked you, as’the only-person whom they.
know: and trust and with any knowledge of the subject, to. meet them to. provide some idea of. the. issues
involved with a possible deal.
During:the telephone conversation, when the‘meeting: was.requested, one:of the Greenfings-directors said ‘We
are‘asking'for, this meeting because we haven't:any experience:of anything like this. Should we be considering,
this.deal in.the:first place? Assuming that'we:decide to go ahead, can,we-get:someone:to help us with it? How
much,should we offer to.Adams? How should. we pay? If we have to. pay‘in.cash, how. could we raise it? Is it
best to buy the assets from.Adams or. buy all-of the shares in Adams? ‘Should we. go straight: to the. Adams
directors or get'someone.to:act'for us? Are‘there any other. issues that you feel that:we should consider?’
In preparation for the meeting ‘you intend to. make notes of the points ‘you will raise with, the ‘directors. ‘You
are: aware that the: directors are people who have skills in-horticulture and retailing, but not in more general
business issues, particularly not.in.finance.
Requirement
Draft a brief set of notes of the points that you intend to raise with the-directors at the meeting. Each of these
points should. be: developed.and explained clearly:in a way thatthe directors will beable to-understand. The
notes should cover all of the issiies raised. by ‘the director, on. the telephone, partictlarly possible sources: of
cash, plus any others that*you 66110 be-felevant.
The notes need ‘not consider factors:relating in detail.to.the:effects of financial gearing.
(15 marks)
15 MYLOSON LTD
A summary of the:financial statements for the-year to 31 December 20X2 is set‘out below:.
SUMMARISED.INCOME.STATEMENT. FOR THE Y-EAR TO 31 DECEMBER.20X2 CU'000
Revenue 3,744
Cost of sales 2,280
Gross profit 1,464
Operating expenses 780
Interest. 72
Tax liability 200
‘Net profit 412
Dividends declared 163
$84 | ‘Financial Management

SUMMARISED.BALANCE.SHEET.AT 3:1. DECEMBER 20X2
CU'000
Non-current assets (net book: value) 1,800
Current assets
Inventory 782
Receivables: 460
Cash;and bank 164
3,206
Current liabilities:
Tradé payablés 324
Other payables,(including dividends) 163
‘Financing:
Ordinary'share capital.(ordinary shares of CU1) 1,200
Retained profits to-31_ December 20X1 550
Retentions for the year. to 31 December. 20X2 249
10% loan.repayable 20Y8 720
3,206
You have identified the following information: r
। ও
০ Expansion plans. টা]
The. company’ plans ‘to ‘spend CU1.2: million on new modern production equipment: This. will allow a
current capacity to be increased and there will be. a consequent increase in. the. number: of customers T
serviced, B
The. business :is therefore expected to grow at 20% for each of thé next. three ‘years.. This applies. to R
revenue.and.cost of sales. Costs‘will be.tightlycontrolled:in this period and-will ‘only rise.at 10% pa.
* Working: capital control 8
The company prides itself on maintaining its control over, its sales-and purchase |ledger. Consequently,
even though there. is a high growth anticipated, the company does .not expect the.average credit period
given or taken to alter, 18 sales to receivables.ratio.and payables-to cost-of-sales ratio: will be:maintained.
The-inventory levels’ are not anticipated to change, as.a result of the:modern production techniques ‘that
will.be.employed.
* Depreciation
The néew-capital expenditure will be-depreciated on a.straight:line basis Over ten-years.
‘° Taxation
‘The company. pays tax:at!2'1%. Capital allowances.on'the new. equipment are-available:at 18% 0.8. 011 a
reducing balance basis..All of-the existing capital has been; written down to zero for tax purposes.
Tax, is:paid in-the sameyear in which:it.is charged.
* Returns to.investors:
‘Dividends will grow-each year in.line with revenue ie 20% pa.
Requirements
(a) Using the information. in.the:scenario:
0) Prepare. forecast:income:statements’for, the years.20X3, 20X4 and.20X5. (7 marks)
(iy ‘Prepare cash flow‘forécasts for the-yéars 20X3, 20X4 anid 20X5, and estimate the:amount:of funds
which will need to be raised by the company to. finance its expansion.
(9 marks)
Business planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 5355}

Notes
(1) You should. ignore ifterest- or returns on surplus funds invested during the three-year. period. of:
review,
(2) This.is not an investment appraisal.exercise; you may ignore the:timing:of cash, flows within each
syear and-you should:not.discount.the:cash flows.
(3) Tgnore:inflation.
(b) ‘Plan.a‘report to the directors of Myloson Ltd which:
(i) Discusses the’ key aspects and:implications of the financial information: you have obtained in your
‘answer. to part (a).of the question.
(iiy Recommends additional methods of financial forecasting which could be:used with advantage by
the company's management. You.should assume that the only forecasts prepared by the company
‘at'present are similar to those you.have prepared for your answer to part (8) of this:question, (5
marks)
(21.miarks)
16 MT
‘MT.is a manufacturer, of electrical products, with advanced. information technology features. MT's results
have stagnated Over-recént years with:static ‘sales and falling Operating profit:margins. Recent developments
in information technology have however allowed MT to develop new lines, which the directors would like to
laurich On markets as soon as possible, although competition is strong. MT neéds (0 ‘ifveést in new
manufacturing technology ‘if it is.to launch these: products, If the products are-successful, MT is 'in-the process
of developing further new lines, although‘these aré likely’to be in, éven tougher.markets.
MT is listed. on its ‘local: stock exchange and has ‘traditionally had ‘a ‘mixture of debt ‘and equity. finance. Its
abbreviated income statement.and balance.sheet*for the year ended 30 April:20X5 are set out:below.
ABBREVIATED INCOME STATEMENT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 20X5
CU'000
Sales 42,000.
Operating profit for the-year ‘5,900
Interest payable. 1,000
‘Net profit before taxation. 4,500
Tax (21%) 945
‘Net profit:after,taxation 3,555
‘Dividends proposed 1,050
Retained profit'for the year 2,505
ABBREVIATED BALANCE SHEET AS AT. 30 APRIL.20X5

ASSETS
‘Non-current assets at written down values 22,500
Current assets 11,500
34,000
EQUITY. AND LIABILITIES
Capital.and reserves
Share capital. 001 shares 4,000
Accumulated, profits 10,500
14,500.
Non-current liabilities
8% redeemable loan stock 12,500
‘Current liabilities. 7,000
£356) | ‘Financial Management

CU'000
34,000
The.directors expect the: new products to generate additional ‘sales of:CUIS:million in.the year:ended 30.April.
'20X6, and that the operating’ profit margin.on these’ products will average 8%. The board predicts that sales
and operating profit margins’ will improve in subsequent years, as the new lines become established. ‘To
‘generate these sales, the directors.estimate:that:CU9 million will need to be invested. The. directors intend to
raise these‘funds, either:
(a) ৪১৪ rights:issue-of'CU1 ordinary. shares at a. premium of CU2-per share
(b) By-an issue:of 10% loan stock:at: par
Even.if the rights issu is chosen,.MT's board would prefer to maintain a constant dividend payout ratio.
Current loan stock‘ holders have indicated ‘to the: directors that they are unhappy with MT. taking on ‘more
debt, as they believe shareholders: will benefit: at. their expense. Certain major shareholders have also
expressed concern that although dividends are’ linked: with ‘the results MT achieves, there appears to be: no
link.between directors" remuneration and results.
Requirements
(a) For-éach of the-financing options .
(i) ‘Prepare a forecast:income statement for the:coming year টে
(ii) -Calculate:the forecast.earnings’ per‘share for the coming year A
(iii) Calculate.the projected-level of gearing'‘at:the end of:the coming*year. P
Assume there will be 'no changes: in :results and balance sheet other. than those -arising from’ the: extra. u
sales and-additional finance. (12. marks) R
(b) Discuss why thé interests of.loan’holders may conflict-with those of, shareholders and instances where
their -interaction may not conflict: and explain how loan stock: holders. can affect: how a company r
achieves:its key financial objectives. (5 marks), 8
(17‘marks)
17 HIGHGATE LTD
Highgate Ltd expects to have a competitive advantage’ over its. competitors, for a period. of four years, The:
following forecasts;rélating to the-value drivers for this competitive advantage-period. have been:created.
Year. ] 2 3 4
Sales. growth % 10 8 5 3
Operating profit, margin 10 12 12 12
(post .depreciation) %
Incremental ‘non-current-asset investment 6 A 2 2.
(as a % of sales increase)
Incremental working:capital investment 4 3 2. 2
(as a % of sales increase)
The following‘information.is also relevant.
* Current sales:for. the year‘are CU550m,
* Tax.on profits:is expected to be paid at.a 13066012192 for'the foreseeable future
* Shareholders-:require-a return of :8% per annum
° Non-current assets’ will-also be:sold during the’ first year'and receipts ‘are estimated to be CU12 million:
. The present value at the end of year four of the free cash flows for the:period following ‘the competitive:
advantage ‘period can be-estimated by applying-a multiple of 13 to the year'four cash flow
Business planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 357)

* _‘No-short-term/investments.are.held

* Debt-with a-mnarket-value 01002951115 held by Highgate Ltd,

* Highgate Ltdhas.50m.CU1 shares in issue

Requirement.

Calculate the:value of a -Highgate:Ltd share-using:the.SV-A approach. (10 marks)
Now. go. back: to the Learning. Objectives in the Introduction. If you are: satisfied’ you. have: achieved, these
objectives, please:tick them off.

353 ‘Financial. Management

Answars to Inicmctive qnesiions
Answer.to Interactive question’l
Value of A-and B combined cu20m 125
0:16.
Vale of A.on-its own, cutsm (75)
0.20
Maximum price for B's shares 350
‘Answer.to Interactive question 2
Year 0 I 2 3 4 5
CUm CUm. CUm CUm CUm CcUm .

Operating cashflow 1.000 1.000 1.000 1.000 1,000
Sale of‘head office 2.000. °
Synergistic. benefits 0:200 0.200 0:200 0.200 0:200 A
Disposal 5.000. P
Neticashflow 2.000 1.200 1.200 1.200 1.200 6,200 v
PVE at:20% 1.000. 0:833 0.694 0:579 0.482 0.402; B
Present value 2.000 1.000 0.833 0:695 0.578 2.492, R

Present: value CU7.598m r

‘Less value of loan stock (CUi.500m) 8

Maximum value of Target CU6:098m
Notes
(1) The estimated disposal ‘value: of ‘Target is included to. compensate for Arrow's short:planning! horizon.. It:is

assumed that’the estimated.disposal value is an approximation of the.present-value of cashflows from year 6

onwards.,.
(2) The present value. of the cash inflows is CU7,598m. This :is generated by. a company’ funded by equity and

debt. Therefore, the: market. value of loan stock has to. be deducted from the total value of ‘the business to

arfive at an-equity value.
Answer to Interactive question 3
Valuation of 200,000.shares = 200,000 x: P/E ratio.x EPS

= 200,000 x 12.5, 287,200 20,000
400,000
= ‘(CU1,045;,000
This amount:would then, typically, be:reduced by '/) to '/;.to:reflect thesdifficulty in selling, these shares.
‘Answer to Interactive question 4
(a) | Combined value = CU75m.x 18 = 1,350
Price’Ltd on its own = CU50m.x:20 = (1,000)
‘Maximum amount: 350
(b) — Currént'value of Maine Ltd = CU20m.x 15: = 300
Business planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | £359)

This is likely to be the minimum price. Anything between CU300m and CU350m splits the additional CU50m.
(1,350m — 1,000m — 300m) between-both sets of shareholders.
{CU.25
| ass CUL:25
@ Constant dividend PO= 9-2 =
£0025. x 1.05
— CUL:75
(i?) Constant growth in dividend po = (0-2-0.05) =
(iii) | Present‘value’of five years’ dividend of:CU0.25 pa = 00:25 x 2.991 = CU0°748
Plus ; a
£0..cu x 1.05 1 ডা _
; ঘ সলভ CU0-703
Present-value of growing:dividend from year 6 onwards. (0.2-0.05) x 1.2° .
CU1.451
(iv). Present'value-of five years’ dividend of CU0.25 pa = CU0:25 « 2.991 CU0:748
; ; a CU0'804
Present‘value*of CU2:00.in five’years’ time.=.CU2.00 x 1.2
CU1.552
Answer.to Interactive question 6
Seller: They. will. want to. ensure that-the amount offered from ‘the managers is backed ‘Up by a reliable
financial. package. Work. by. their financial advisers: and lawyers’ will help: to ensure that the
‘finance. is in place. There may be. other, lower bidders. Whilst, those alternative: offers may’ be
‘lower, the ‘finance may. 86 more casily available if. the bidder is a large organisation, with liquid
assets.
Managers: ‘The-attractions-of an.MBO are:
e Independence
০ ‘Financial.reward
° Motivation
‘The risks however'are:
° _Lack.of support:from within the business and also from suppliers.and customers..
° Lack-of'skills within the business if key employees leave
° _-Financial-risk, If business profits fall.even by alittle, it might become impossible'to service
‘the large amount. of-debt.
VC: ‘The-objective will be to make a'very high, financial return. This is typically achieved by’selling-the
business’ within three to‘five’years, by:flotation.or otherwise:
The VCrwill:not:be assured. that the value of. their shares -will.be as:high;as they want.
Their. downside risk-is typically‘managed by:
e Having: board representation
e ‘Investing.a mixture:of debt:and equity
° Including convertible:terms in the debt, such: that:debt-converts into. a,.higher equity share in.
the event thatthe company On.subsequent sale-is worth less than originally.envisioned.
Bank: ‘The bank’ will manage:their risk by investing:in senior debt, ie-debt which ranks: higher, than: other
.debtsin:terms of interest, security and repayment.
The bank .might-also ‘want'personal. guarantees from'the buyout team,
360) | ‘Financial Management

Alternative:presentations for: Worked'example: Financial statement forecasting :
Loumar.Ltd
Appendices
1 Cash receipts and payments
20X7 20X8 ‘20X9
Receipts (0000 0000 CU:000:
Cash-from:sales. ;
(revenue:+ opening receivables —-closing:receivableés) 1,697 1,867 2,052
‘Payments
For, purchases (cost.of sales +-opening না
payables —closing payables) 1,032. 1,135 1,247
Operating expenses’ 341 358 376
Additional inventory purchase 35
‘Machinery 500
‘TInterest:(current year) 30 30 30
‘Tax:(current year) 44 58 72
Dividends (previous year): 85 106 133
2,067 1,687 1,858
Net cash flow: (370) 180 194,
Cash/(deficit) b/f. 73 (297) (117)
Cash/(deficit) c/f (297) (1.17) TT r
Answer, to Interactive question 7, 00
(a) (i) “‘There:is no information about the:cost:of loan.interest, and it.is-assumed that this cost:is included within A
other expenses. ঢু
MYLOTIC LTD B
FORECAST INCOME:STATEMENT- FOR THE YEAR ‘T.0'30.NOVEMBER:20X3 R
CUm €Um
Revenue (CU240m.x 1.25) 300.0, r
Cost of sales (70%) 210.0 8
Gross profit (30%) 90.0
‘Expenses’ 54.6
‘Depreciation of buildings:(5% of 'CU20m) ; 1.0
‘Depreciation: of plant and. machinery (20%.of CU(25m.+57m)) 16.4
72.0
Profit-before taxation. 18.0
Taxation (21%) 3.8
‘Profit-after taxation 14.2
Dividend (50%) ঢা
‘Retained profit 71]
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 536 1)

(i). MYLOTIC LTD
FORECAST BALANCE SHEET AS AT 30 NOVEMBER 20X3
CUm CcUm CUm:
Non-current:assets
Freehold buildings.at:cost 24.4
Less accumulated depreciation ‘5.4
19.0
Plant:and:machinery at:cost 94.9
Less accumulated depreciation (12.9'+ 16.4) 29.3
65.6
84.6
Current:assets
Inventory (39 —'18) 21.0
Trade receivables (W1) 75.0
96.0
Payables: amounts falling:due within‘one year.
Bank. overdraft (W4) ‘22.9
Trade payables (W2) 24.0
Dividend payable Td
54.0
42.0
126.6
Payables: amounts falling-due after more than one-year
Loan, (W3) 31.5.
95/1
Share-capital and réserves
Ordinary shares-of CU] 20.0
Accumulated profits (68'+'7.1) 75.1.
WORKINGS
(1) ‘Trade-receivables
Ayetage-debt-collection 09000 in year'to’30.11.20X2.= (20/240) x 12 monttis;= | month.
Average debt.collection period in year:to 30.11.20X3 = 3 times one:month= 3 months.
‘Trade receivables-as at 30 November 20X3 =(3/12) x CU300 million = €U75 million.
(2) Trade payables.
Purchases.in:the year= closing inventory +-cost:of sales — opening inventory.
‘Purchases are’ therefore (given.an CU1 8mireduction-in:inventory:levels)
21m-+210m — 39m = CU192-million.
Trade payables at 30.1.1.20X3 = (1/5/12) x‘CU192 million =CU24 million.
(3). Loan
CcUm
Share capital 20.0
-Reserves-as at 30 November 20X2. 68.0,
Retained profit; 20X3 6.5
36 2} | ‘Financial Management

Share capital and reserves at 30:11.20X3 94.5
‘Loan at 30.11.20X3 (one-third of CU94.5m) 31.5
Original.loan 57.0,
‘Loan fepaid.in the year. 25.5
(4). Cash.
Tutorial note: The. cash balance in the. balance. sheet can be calculated. as thé ‘missing: figure’ to
make: the balance sheet net: assets equal the share: capital and. reserves. A proof of the ¢ash
position, however, is shown here.
CUm CUm
Operating profit 18.0
Add back depreciation (1.0 + 16,4) 17-4
35.4
Reduction in:inventory 18.0
Increase :in:recetvables (75; —'20) (55.0)
Increase:in trade-payables (24 — 16.5) 15
(29.5)
Cash flow from operations 5.9 2
Tax-paid (3.8) A
Dividends. paid (7.8) P
Machinery‘purchase (57.0) v
Loan raised 37.0 5
Loan repaid (25.5)
Cash flow in,the year (31.2) a
Cash at start of year 83 8
Cash at end of’ year (22.9)
(b) Liquidity .is "expected. to deteriorate. The. company ‘is forecasting ‘a bank.overdraft.of CCU22.9 :million. at the
end of. November :20X3, compared ‘to a positive ‘cash. balance. the previous’ year. The. company ‘will have to
ensure that.bank overdraft facilities are available if it:goes‘dhead. with jits-plan (01110176896 93163:
The company will also have some long-term debt capital, haying been ungeared. in the year to
30 -November:20X2,
On the. basis of the ‘forécdsts, it is. questionable whether there is any financial benefit to be obtained from
expanding Sales, and the Contipany management should review. its plans‘urgently, before-implementing them.
‘Answer,to Interactive question 8
To: The directors of Max-Ltd
From: Consultants
This report. outlines the advantages and disadvantages of the two financing methods and gives a consideration of
alternative methods.
These figures illustrate some: of the following:-characteristics of ¢quity and debt financing.
Dilution of share ownership
A share issue may alter the disposition 01 power-in the ownership: of the company, ,reducing the influence of the
original shareholders. ‘Because: it, is risk-bearing capital, and dividend payouts are. not tax deductible, equity
finance is expensive compared with the-direct cost, of debt.:It also has very high-issue costs because of the legal.
requitements that must;be observed. A share issue -will often cause a.fall in. EPS, especially in the early years of a
new investment. However, thé. advantage is that gearing is reduced, which improves the: stability of equity
earnings, reducing shareholders’ financial risk:and lowering the return that they:demand_ from their,investment.
Business’ planning,.valuation‘and restructuring | 363]

Direct issue costs’
Debt finance will not cause:any dilution of:shareholding.and, because interest-payments, are more: predictable than
dividends and are an allowable expense for'tax purposes, debt has.a cheaper directicost than equity finance, The
additional, profit generated ‘from. the: investment will therefore enhance. expected, EPS.. However. the increase in,
gearing ‘and. interest’ payments: will Cause shareholders’ returns to drop markedly if profits do not- 10781081192,
increasing their financial.risk and causing an incteased. cost of equity capital. Fldating rate debt brings the added
problem of possible significant increases in future interest rates, referred to as interest rate:risk..
Profit uncertainty:
In general; if‘the new project has highly-uncertain of volatile predicted profits, equity finance:may be’preferred
because financial risk for existing shareholders may become too high if debt;finarice-is ‘used. Gearing: that. is
too high may also. increase: bankruptcy risk, with, its attendant costs. Debt finance may be: preferred. for projects
with. moreé;stable:profit and cash flow profiles, because of its cheap direct-cost.
Tax:shield,
However, financial theory shows. that the combined ‘effects of the advantages, and disadvantages, listed above
create very little:difference between the effect of equity. and debt finance.on company value. 11 anything;:debt.has
an advantage if the company is,not.highly geared and can take advantage of interest payments as a tax. allowable
expense; but:it-has been arguéd that this, 'tax shield’ effect of-debt-is overstated, and this will certainly. be the-case
when interest rates;are. low:
Retained earnings
As a‘purely practical method of financing projects,. "pecking order ‘theory’ shows. that financial managers will.
normally look to retained equity earnings. as a first:source of:capital for‘expansion. This implies: that companies
wishing to.expand will normally have low dividend payouts. The advantage-of using retained earnings.is that there
are no issue costs..and no prospectus. or other requirements for. reporting to investors. Only when retained.
earnings have been fully utilised will companies look-to.the next source of.finance, which is normally borrowing,
because of the speed at which.it-can be arranged, compared, with share issues, its relatively low issue costs and the
many different forms it can take; which.can often be tailored to the company’s needs. Share-issues: are reserved for
very large expansions or acquisitions. Because of:their high issue-costs and-the onerous legal requirements, ‘they
cannot be:carried out too.often.
Variations on borrowing
For example, convertible debt gives the: holder an option to ‘convert ‘from debt to the company's shares, and
warrants (options to buy the ‘company's:shares at-a fixed, price) can be linked to debt .issues. Both .of these
methods succeed in. reducing the interest cost 01 debt to the company but may become: more. expensive in. the
long'run if-the options are exercised, resulting in the:effective issue of. cheap:shares. Types-of debt instrument have
grown greatly in number-in the last few decades. Swaps enable-fixed rate debt-to be converted to-floating:rate-or
vice versa. Futures and forward debt, contracts can be arranged and, as in. our case, options canbe purchased. to
providecaps:(maximumzinterest,rates).or collars (maximum,and_minimum interest rates).
Other sources of. finance
We might: also consider acquisition of the new assets by hire purchase or lease:finance, sale ‘and leaseback of
existing property, or raising finance from .our working capital, for example ‘by ‘factoring our, debts or ‘invoice
discounting, or by negotiating purchase. finance:for ‘inventory.

364 | ‘Financial Management

Answers 03 SdiHiest
1. Shareholders’ wealth:of Purchasing = 5mxCU3
= CUlSm
Shareholders wealth of Target. = Imx:CU1L5
= CUI5m
eo . cu3, . WIS.
Combined earnings = — x5m+ — xIm
20 10
= CU09m
New value of company = 19 x CU0.9m.
= CUI7.1m
Purchasing:shareholders' wealth change’ = = x CUI7.1m —CU15m.
= CU0545m
Target:shareholders’ wealth change = == XCUI7/1m—CU15m
5.5 ৪
= CU0:055m ঢা]
Both have. gained. P
(400 x2):-+(200 +2) R
= (CU0.2756 L
= 27.56p 8
ও Number of shares:inissue = = + 400m+50m
= 450m
Earnings = CU(100m + 20m + 4m)
= CUI24m,
pps লাতিনা
450m
= C€U0.2755
Price‘per share = CU2.70.
0.2755
= 9.80
4 Ifthe purchaser, wants the business but does: not:buy the-company, the price.he would have'to pay-is CU5.3m,
the-cost of setting: up an-equivalent’ venture. This assumes-that the CU5.3m-includes.the cost of goodwill.
5 Balance:sheet value is irrelevant.
Set up from scratch is assumed to exclude goodwill-and is-irrelevant.
DCF value cannot be‘immediately realised.
NRY is:their only’realistic alternative, 16 CU2:8m.
6 Value-after:merger (CU'000) = (200 +.800 +100) 20
= 22,000
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 5365}

Value’Beta pre-merger (00000) = 800: 21
= 16,800.
Value of. Alpha (CU'000) = 5,200, ie CUS:2m
7 Valueof merged company = CU(40m+8m+5m-+'lm).
= CU54m
New value of companyR = CU54m x:80%
= -CU43.2m
Gains to shareholders = CU43.2m-40m
= CU3.2m
8 Unless they definitely need to sell now they should ‘not.consider an offer less than. the present. value of the:
firm's future receipts, ie-CU2.5m,
9 The bestialtérnative:for'the vendors -is the NRV, i¢-CU3.0m.
10 ZAPPA LTD
(a) Terms
Tn ‘a buy-in the ‘managers who are doing the buying are not ‘existing, managers in the firm which ‘is
‘selling ‘part of its operation.
In a-buy-out the managers work:for the firm, usually‘in.that.part which-is the subject of the sale.
A sell-off-involves selling part 063 firm's. business, perhaps to another‘firm, ‘perhaps to the:managers.
A spin-off involves dividing the operations of ‘the. existing firm, into two (or, possibly, more) parts by
creating.a new fitm (or, firms) to take responsibility for-the spun-off part. Shareholders are given shares
in this -new-firm (or fitms) in, proportion to the ;shares which they originally own. in the original fitm.
Thus the shareholders own-the same assets, but through two (or more) separate: shareholdings.
(b) Advantages and.disadvantages of a‘management buy-out
Advantages
‘Have:been successful.in:recent years. Complicated, financing packages due to the
managers' inability to raise all the cash
themselves.
Managers know and understand the business. Heavy debt burden,
‘Managers are.committed to its success. Loss‘of head office:support:and services.
(c) ‘Report
To Buy-out team.of Zappa Ltd’
From. An Analyst
Date Today
Subject MBO. financing scheme
Overview.
The. financing scheme involves the purchase of assets with a net book value 06 CU2,250,000 ‘for. ‘an
agreed price of. CU2,500,000. The finance raised will provide funds of CU2,850,000. made up as:
follows.
£366} | ‘Financial Management

CU'000
Ordinary shares 250
Preference shares 1,200.
Loan 700
Overdraft 700
2,850
Of the:funds raised, only CU350,000 will be available tothe business ‘after, the purchase price:has: been.
paid. This. will.be-in.the:form of: unused overdraft: facilities.
Gearing
As is.common to MBOs the gearing level willbe very: high
1200+ 700 +700 = 1,040%

There ‘is only CU250,000 of equity compared. with CU2,600,000 of debt finance’ (including, the
preference‘shares and.all of the overdraft as: debt), The gearing'level will ‘mean ‘that:the‘returns to equity
will be risky, but°the buy-out team.owns:40% of a CU2.5 million company ‘for an investment of only
CU100,000. The.rewards are potentially very high.-Careful monitoring of cash flow‘will be-vital..
One consequence of this level. of gearing is that-it'will-be difficult to raise’ any additional finance. There |
are unlikely to be any: assets that are not -secured, and 1) any event the level of interest. and Joan iC}
repayments would probably prohibit:further borrowing. FY}
Cash commitments a
The following is a Summary ofthe annual caSh:commitments‘fromi:the’financing-structuré. v
(i) Loan repayments 5
Annual payménts will have to be made in the:repayméents of capital and interest 01016 CU700,000
‘Joan, The:annual amount will'be: .
700.0 8
C2 700,008 = CU194,000
3.605*
* The annuity factor for five years.at, 12%.
(1); ‘Redeemable:cumulative preference shares
The: preference:shares will require-on:average of'CU.120,000 to be paid every year. There is.a little
flexibility; in that if the: dividend cannot'be met:it:can be postponed (but not-avoided)..
The.redeemable preference shares will have to be.repaid after. ten years. This.can be provided for
over the ten years, or an alternative source-of finance found. to replace the: funds. Assuming that.
they are to be provided for according. to: the terms of the :financing. package, this will require. a
further cash outflow of. up to. CU.120,000' per, annum, depending upon the rate 0 interest on the
‘sinking fund.
(011) Overdraft,
The: element of the overdraft used. to finance. the purchase’ price is effectively a source of long-
term finance. The.rate.of interest.is currently 12%; at this rate CU350;000 drawn down will cost!
CU42,000 per. annum.
Tn total there will.be’a commitment :to:pay ‘approximately CU476,000: per ‘annum.. This will be the.
first priority of the new company. The management team. will need to. generate sufficient funds
from the.only available:source —operations. —in.order to meet this commitment:
Other cash commitments
Apart from the need to generate cash to:satisfy the parts of the financing. scheme, the:company will also
need to generate funds. to invest.in working capital and.non-current assets as required. .At the:moment:
these capital.needs are ‘unknown. In the context‘of 10% annual growth in.revenue, however, they might
exceed the’unused clement of the overdraft facility.
Institutional involvement
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 367)

By virtue:of their 60% interest in the:ordinary:shares of the company, the-financial institutions hold the

controlling:stake. They also hold all of the preference shares. Consequently, the institutions will be-able:

to determine -many aspects of the: company’s management, ‘including. the appointment of. directors.

Institutional board representation is also probable.

The institutions aré likely to have two.overriding objectives.

(i) The security of loan-and interest repayments
Any breach- of the'loan arrangements might-trigger the appointment.of administrators or:receivers,
and the invéstrnént of:the.institutions would.almost certainly be. lost.

(ii) Realising their equity investments
‘The institutional investors will. probably expect to realise their investment in a relatively: short:
time:frame..This:is commonly set-at.between.five and seven, years, and management:need to make
plans for‘an exit:route, probably by planning a flotation.at that time.

Profit growth

Apart from, the need fo. generate cash ‘as noted ‘above, the company must.also generate ‘steady profit.

growth. The institutional investors will.require.a history of profit. growth.in order.to enable the:disposal

‘of their stake:‘through flotation or a trade sale.

Conclusion.

The ‘financing scheme ‘will.‘place: a -heavy cash burden on the company, particularly ‘in: the-early years.

The involvement of the institutions ‘will:perhaps prove unwelcome, but the.MBO would be ‘impossible

without accepting it.

(d) Financing packages for service.company MBOs

There are.three-main problems particular to.arranging.a finance package. for a service company.

(i) The lack of tangible-assets
Because MBOs normally have to be highly geared, there is a need'to provide security for the loans
‘ina package. Service companies commonly have a very. low level of tangible assets. It. will
therefore be difficult'to-attract: much: debt'finance. Mezziinine finance may. be helpful.

01) ‘People! businesses
The: success of ‘service companies depends. on their staff. Institutions tend to view such success
with, suspicion, because: people, unlike plant and. equipment, can Tesign. Unless the people in
question: are tied into-the company within the MBO financing: package by, for example, insisting
on. their inyesting in equity, there.1s little guarantee that they: will stay with the company. Service
contracts;may be required.

(iii) Working:capital
The:nature of.most service companies:is that they have unusually:high working capital needs. The
main. expense fora service company:is staff‘costs. [015 almost impossible to-take extended credit.
from staff without losing: their services. The supplies. of service. companies ‘often involve a long
period of work, before customers can be billed. Consequently, a finance. package would have to
provide for the working:capital: working capital finance is-particularly risky because it.is difficult:
to:secure:and so‘may be equally difficult to raise.

11 BIGUN LTD
(a) Report:

To The Directors;.Bigun Ltd

From Anna Liszt

Date. Today

Subject Cost.of possible acquisitions by Bigun ‘Ltd

1] Terms.of reference
The: following.report estimates:the values-of Klein.Ltd‘and PTT Ltd.

2 Summary
The.following table gives estimates of:the possible values of the’two companies.

£368} | ‘Financial Management

Valuation basis Klein Ltd PTT Lid
PIE ratio CU12:4m, CU12.5m.
Dividend valuation CU19.6m. (CUI5.8m.
Net asset'value CU6.3m CU6.5m.
Because ‘these valuations are baséd on estimates they must be: séen as. guides only and should be
‘interpreted with reference to thé assumptions lying ‘behind their calculation. Details of. the
calculations.are given in the-appendix,
ও Klein Ltd
The:P/E ratio approach for Klein Ltd is 'the best; estimate of market value available. because it:is
based on actual earnings and. the observed;P/E ratio. It-will, give actual market value ৪631 March
20X2. Note, however, that thé situation of Klein:might-have changed significaritly since that: date:
The: dividend valuation approach givés & higher’ valuation for Klein,. but. the assumption that
‘investors. expect-past growth to cOntifiue into the future is questionable. It is not clear'from. the:
information supplied how‘the required return in equity was estimated, and this too will affect. the
‘valuation.
The. asset valuation is Of little worth, being based. on historical, book: values with no indication
being given of current values, goodwill, etc.
4 PTT Ltd
PTT“is not.a quoted company and, therefore: any estimate:of its value’ will be.somewhat subjective. r
The:dividend valuation is. CU15.8m but once.again-caution must be-.exercised.due tothe difficulty °
‘in.estimating growth and the-estimate of'the-required return: on, equity. A
The:P/E ‘ratio approach needs caution as: the multiple:of ‘Klein Ltd:(a quoted company) has: been ঢল
used. It is: usually ‘considered that non-quoted. firms should .have: much. lower. P/E 18005 and a v
reduction of up to 50% on this valuation:is possible. 5
For:similar reasons:as those.given for Klein Ltd.the:asset:value.of PTT Ltd is-of. limited use.
5 Conclusions. 8
All of the-above figures should be seen.as educated guesses. The-final price-paid will depend on
show much each party wishes to sell and how. badly Bigun, Ltd. wishes to-buy. The estimates of
CU12.4m and:CU15.8m_for'Klein.and PTT respectively are:probably the best-guide-but.premiums
of up to 25% on current market price aré not uncorimon,.rising to 50% plus:if the-bid is.conitested..
6 Appendix
Klein Ltd
(1) P/E.ratio approach
EPS x P/E ratio:=.Market-value per share.
cu RR _ রণ cy; on)
Current EPS = হত = (Eem x11%)) 9.79 aug 13979
5m ‘shares
P/E ratio (given) = 18.6
‘Market price per, share.on. historic; EPS = CU0.13272 x: 18.6:=.CU2.47'
Total value of. Klein equity = CU2.47 x 5m shares =CU12.4m
(2). Dividend valuation
Do = EPS x proportion paid out’as dividend
=CU0.13272:x 40%
=CU0.0531
D,(1+9)
Po =
ke-—g
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 53,69)

_ 0.053131.105
0.12-0.105
=CU3.91 per:share:
Therefore total.value = CU3.91 x 5m.
= GU19.6m
PIT
(3) ‘Dividénd valuation
Dy = (1.4m - (5.5m 10%))x 0.79% .0.75
~ 2.8m shares
= CU0.1799 per share
D, (1+ g)
Pp = ০০6 ১-০
(ke—g)
_ 0.1799 «1.095
= CU5:63 per-share
Total value of PTT'=CUS5.63 « 2.8m:=CUIS.8m.
(4). P/E’valuation —using P/E’ratio for-Klein Ltd
EPS =CU0.2399 (that. is:Do-x 1 = 0.1799 x 1 =:0.2399)
0:75 0.75
CU0.2399 x 18.6 = CU4.46 per-share
Total equity: valuesof PTT Ltd = CU4.46 x 2.8m
= CU12.5m
(b) Terms to be offered by Bigun:Ltd
The ters that:may be- offered partly depend upon the sum of money involved. ‘Letus assume that both
companiés are bid ‘for at:a total cost of CUI2.4m + CU15.8m + a premium, say, CU32m:in-total.
The following terms could be used.
A cash offer
This has, the advantage: that: all parties.are assured of the sum received. ‘Howeyer it could:mean, that the
shareholders: in. the victim. companies: will have to, pay capital gains tax almost immediately. Further;
‘Bigun Ltd only has: CU5m of cash, and borrowing or an equity issue: would, be required to 13196. the
remainder. of the.cash.
A loan for share exchange
Bigun Ltd. could offer to exchange Joan stock in return for the shares of the victim, companies.. This
would give. the victim, shareholders::a fairly safe income. :stream -and not expose: them. to: immediate
capital gains tax. It would, however, prevent them. from participating. in:future profit growth. and. this
might not be popular.
‘From. the viewpoint of Bigun Ltd it would ‘cause a significant increase: in gearing which might be: of
concern to existing investors..
A share-for-share exchange
Bigun Ltd could offer to exchange.new’ shares: for the existing shares in Klein and PTT. At a. current
‘market’ price of .CU3.62 (EPS 19.70p'. P/E ratio 18.4) and. a bid. of: CU3.2m,,. this would réquire the:
issue-of approximately 12.2m shares.
03701 | ‘Financial Management

The current:equity earnings of Klein-and PTT is.as follows.
চে] — Interest‘on payables.more than: one year):x: (1, ‘tax rate)
= (1.5m.+ 1.4m—(6:0.x 1:1.96):-—(5:5 x 10%)] x 0:79
=3(2.9m —-1.21m).x:0.79
=CU1,335,100
The-current.EPS of-Bigun Ltd is 19.70p, whereas the:incremental EPS on the new shares.is only
‘Current equity earningsof Kleinand PIT _ cvi,335,100 _ 15.17;
8.8m shares 8,800,000
This. would result:in ‘a reduction in:EPS.(and_ possibly market value)-of Bigun:shares.
Overall.each of the various packages presents problems. Bigun shareholders might not be happy with. a
cash, offer because of liquidity jéoblems, whereas the use of loan stock could drive gearing to an
unacceptable. level. An equity issue could.result:in a.reduction.in, EPS though;much would depend upon,
the combined. earnings: of thé three: companies.
A. compromise solution often adopted would be to ‘use a -mixtiite of ‘the above packages,
forexample.a cash and.equity offer.
12, LAFAYETTE LTD
(a) Business’valuations
0) Asset basis —
CU'000 CU'000. ৪
-Revalued. assets Goodwill, 5,000.
Property (1.511/0.08) 18,750, ty
Plant 20,000 A
Investments. 7,500 P
Receivables 5,000. v
Inventories 3,000 &
Cash 1,000 R
a 60;250
Less Debenture payment: 7,500 fr
Payables 6,000 8
Assets:of preference shareholders 4,000.
(17,500)
42,750.
Number of equity shares 20m
Price per:share-(€U42.75m /:20m) 2:14.
Gi) P/E ratio
‘Earnings per share:(20X2)
_ Earnings after tax and pref divs
Number of shares
03m _ ০১০17
‘20m,
Average:P/E:ratio for X and-Y, = 9.75
Suggested price =.CU0.17 x 9.75 = 1.66
‘Less reduction for non-marketability (25% say) 0.42
1.24
ii) Dividend yield,
(Dividend 20X2 + Number of, shares) = (CU1m,+ 20m):= CU0:05
Average:gross dividend yield:for.X.and Y = 4:5%
CU
Suggested price=:CU0.05 +:0.045' Ld
Less reduction for non-marketability (25%, say) 0.28
0:83
Business planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | il

(ivy Comment
There is clearly a big difference between ‘the value per, share artived;at on an asset: basis and one
based on earnings. The highest price is CU2.14 but the purchaser may not be: willing to accept:
this. It is 88860 on the market ‘value of ‘the freehold; property which: presumably is needed by
‘Lafayette-in order to continue in business. It also-includes.a valuation ‘for goodwill, an intangible
asseti. If ‘the goodwill valuation is excluded, which might well be justified as the profits. from
Lafayette:are falling.and the’ property is kept at its balance sheet value, the asset basis shows the
‘following valuation.

Property 10,000
‘Plant, 20,000
Investments 7,500
Current assets 9,000
| 46,500
Debentures, payables, preference;shareholders, as before 17,500
‘29,000
This: is €U1.45 per, share, which is: reasonably close: to the prices arrived. at by the P/E ratio and
.dividend yield.methods before the reduction for:non-marketability. A price of CU1.50 or'CU1.60
would appear to be a.reasonable price, but:in the negotiations Lafayette should-start.by asking for
‘a higher-figure, nearer, to the CU2 per share based’ on asset’values under one.set:of assumptions,
namely break-up value (see:below).
(b) Lowest price-at which the directors should sell.
The earnings based figures calculated in (a) above are calculated. using market. ratios: from. similar
quoted companies, adjusted to reflect the: non-marketability of Lafayette. shares. The earnings figures
used are the 20X2 ‘figures. However, a potential purchaser will be interested ‘in future maintainable:
earnings. and. the experience-of the last, three years suggests these may continue ‘to fall. Any earnings
based share price-is therefore likely:to be lower'than thos¢ calculated above.
Tn ‘view’ of ‘the low earnings based ‘valuations and. the higher asset. 88960, ‘valuation the directors of
Lafayette ‘would be advised to consider'the break-up value of the business as the lowest possible price,
As the.directors wish to receive:cash for their'shares — that-is, realisetheir investment — it may be better’
to:selloff the assets:rather than sell,the: business‘as a going concern.
Further work: is: required to ascertain the net break ‘up value of. the: business after disposal. costs: and
taxation (for‘example, what is‘the disposal value ০016 plant.and machinery?) but'this figure should be
regarded as the: ‘worst, case scenario’ for the directors and, therefore, the. lowest:figure they should be
prepared to accept.
(c) Factors contributing tothe popularity of management buyouts
For several decades leading up to the early 1980s there was rapid growth. in the. size of many
companiés. The. perceived benefits, of economies of scale and jservicing .an, expanding global, market.
fuelled. this growth,
However the recession of ‘the 1980s. and the rapid change of consumer preferences Jed to a need for
firms that’ serviced 'niche’ markets, These firms were able to change quickly: with consumer’ desires,
Consumers often.sought high quality and innovation:rather than high volume. This cultural change:from.
large: to small enterprises servicing specialised rather’ than general markets has probably been the major
factor in.the growth of management buyouts.
‘Other contributing factors to this increase can be‘considered.from,the viewpoint of the company that:is
selling and the:management team that.is buying.
Vendors
If the company to be:sold is:part:of a.group, the following benefits can arise
(i) Divestment of an area of business-that-is peripheral to its main business-or no longer fits its.overall,
corporate objectives,
(iiy Cash flow benefits from the disposal ~ either as a.name of reifivestment in other, more suitable,
‘areas or to-reduce overall corporate borrowing:
Tf the company to be-sold is’privately ‘owned
0) Realising'capital locked.up-in the’ business: eitheron-retirement, death or-lack of successors,
5372} | ‘Financial Management

(iy 10201580881 to a‘trusted 1681 100 will maintain the firm with the-same identity (often ও matter of

concern to ‘founders ০63 business) ‘and should minimise any'redundancies that:result-from. the sale:
In general terms the:sale‘to a-known.team.should minimise:any risk of disruption to client:relationships
and the confidential information that will otherwise:have to be given.to prospective.buyers.
Lastly. the vendors may have:no. choice but to’sell.to’the managers 10110400161 purchaser is available.
Management:team
Reasons for planning.a buyout may‘include:
(i) -A-wish to control .their-own.destiny and share’ more directly‘in ‘the success of the business
(ii) Freedom from grotip constraint.on decision-making and’strategic‘planning
(iii) The-possibility of a buyout being the management team's only-alternative to redundancy
(iv) Opportunity to continue to.use existing skills-in.a changing business environment for the group
(v) The: apparent, success. of other buyouts leading to flotation on the AIM and substantial wealth

benefits accruing to'the management:team.
The most.recent cases-of' management buyouts are predominantly:a result:of the:divestment by a parent
company:of areas of business that.no. longer;suit their overall corporate strategy.
Reasons for lenders allowing high gearing ratios
Any lender is concerned with the risk and return associated with. the decision to lend. In a buyout
situation, debt-to equity ratios of 5 to ‘1 are not uncommon. This is.a gearing level much greater than. iC)
generally accepted banking:ratios. FY)
Put: simply, the. degree-of gearing will’be limited by the. company’s forecast ability to. pay capital, and a
interest-on loans. Additionally some. security. for these loans -will also be: sought. This security may be T
on, thé asséts. of the busifies’s and personal guarantees from the buy-out ‘téam,. It is not unusual. for E}
financiers to:seek the assignment.of life assurance‘policies on ‘key employees’. Finally the: security:may R
be. enhanced by: taking. an equity stake in the. business and hence exercising some direct management
control.
‘The major concerns for the providers of finance can,be summarised.as:follows. 8
0) Whattis the nature and condition 00006 company’s assets‘ both physical and human?
(ii) What‘is theexpected cash flow‘and profitability?
(ii) Will the.high levels‘of gearing be.reduced, within a.reasonable amount of time (3-to.5 years)?
(iv), Are there any taxation benefits-accruing fronvunderutilisation of debt capacity?
Essentially financiers are.looking for a reasonable:return given the:risks of their investment. In. many
buyouts the confidence of the financiers in the ability of the management team.has been a major factor
in determining 016 high levels:of gearing that are commonly‘seen.

13 JODOCUS LTD
(a) ‘Increase’in existing:shareholders' wealth.
‘Value-of extra earnings = PV of earnings post-tax at discount rate appropriate-to business risk
Extra.value.to Jodocus:
cu1.8m x0.79 ..
= ——__——_ -cu7.11m
0.2.

(1) Purchase of Victim's:shares

as , « £eum #£7culm—Leuim -

New market price per share-=. চা আআ = £2cu81

: : m

Inéréase in wealth ‘for Jodocus shareholders = CU1.81,

(2) Share exchange
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 3731

xy: . eum +£iculm
New market price per-share:=: ——._ = CU20.85
(1m +0.3m)
Increase in, wealth:for.Jodocus shareholders = CU0.85 pet'share
(b) Practical problems of valuation models and private companies
The valuation. model used. to. value a private: company will depend on whether a minority holding or
majority holding: is to be valuéd. A minority. shareholding may: be valued. by using .a dividend. basis
possibly by:a:dividend growth;model where'the-marketvalue.of equity:is assumed to be
+g
PR =q, +9)
(Ke-g)
Alternatively a:simpler approach using.conventional. views of dividend yield might be appropriate. The
practical, problem arises in, attempting:to estimate g and k,. The anticipated ‘annual future. growth ‘rate
may be estimated, by past growth or-using the earnings retention model. Both models, however, use past:
data to predict future growth.
A company's. cost of equity may‘be-estimated-using:a quoted company with the:same capital structure in
the same business risk .class.. However; in practice some adjustment should be. made (1016 increased
risk in investing in a private company: as ,it will tend, to be smaller and less diversified. The same
problems arise in the necessary adjustment to the dividend yield, of' a. quoted company, Jif it is to be
applied to a private-company's latest-dividend in order to value that:company.
In'valuing a majority holding there-are again a number:of different-models reflecting control.of:dividend
policy and/or: assets. First, a model can be used which is. based. on ‘the assumption. that the value. of: a.
company's equity is the present value of the future earnings stream. As for the dividend model,
problems arisé-in estimating growth,in earnings and. estimating a:discountirate to reflect.the:risk of those
earings.
A. similar quoted. company's. current, earnings yield or price. earnings ratio. may be. applied to 006.
company's current earnings. ‘However again. an adjustment should. be made: to reflect. the ‘lower
marketability of the shares. An acquiring company will also need to consider any synergistic benefits
‘that may: 81132.
Problems also:arise in.using-an. asset-based -value. Balance:sheet values are based on historical-costs and.
are ‘unlikely to be useful in valuing a company. Service companies have-relatively small investments in
tangible assets and if the company is a going-concern:it would’be inappropriate-to apply an asset-based
value:to such a company, even.if the replacement cost. of those assets was used, as this does not reflect
the goodwill the company's activities may have generated. The net realisable value could be used.for a:
company ag, a guide to a ‘minimum 0006, particularly if the company were in financial difficulty and
unable to continue in.its own right., However, particular, problems arise,in valuing specialised equipment.
Inevitably a range. of different models: will :give. different valuations and jit is always a process of
negotiation between the:minimum the. target: company's shareholders, will accept and. 016 maximum the
acquiring. company's shareholders will pay. Part:of that process of negotiation will involve determining
a method of discharging the purchase consideration. For instance, in,a takeover where the consideration
may be mainly for. cash or, loan stock the target company's. shareholders will take no further part:in the
control of the business. However, in a merger, both companies’ shareholders will continue’té be:actively
involved in the company’s operations.and as such 1may place 4 different-value-on‘their holdings.
14. GREENFINGS LTD
Financing’and other issues relating to.a takeover by one small company of:another.
Lifecycle: phase
At this stage:in the.lifecycle of the business, takeover. may well be a sensible way to grow. It may, however,
represent too large: an incremental jump: in the scale: of operations, and, the company's directors should,
carefully consider whether organic growth might be more.appropriate.
Advice
537.4 | ‘Financial. Management

Most companies, particularly ‘the smaller entities, need advice-in ateas like this, Takeovers dre likely to be
Once-in-d-lifetizne events, and it-is unlikely ‘that expertise is present. ‘in house’. Relatively large amounts. of
finance are. likely to be-involved and errors could be:expensive.
Merchant. banks are an obvious source of advice. They will have experience: and expertise. They may also
have access to clients who-could help with the ‘financing. Most of the larger“firnis of chartered accountants
have corporate finance departments and it is likely that the-auditors have adirect-link:to one of these. These
‘also can-offer‘advice.
Valuation
This is a difficult-area. As with any other asset, a whole business. should logically have. a: value based. on the
projected cash flows.from:it, discourited at a;suitable rate. Estimating the-cash flows will be-difficult, though
if. Adams is ‘keen to do a deal, help may come-from. its directors. Deriving a;suitable discount:rate will also.be:
tricky. Looking at a listed company, whose cost of capital is more easy to estimate, might be: helpful ds a
basis. for comparison, using CAPM. The value of Adams to Greenfings is the value of the combined
Operation, taking account of synergistic benefits, less the Value of Greénfings without. Adams,
On a practical. note, Adams’ shareholders would be unlikely to accept. less than ‘the breakup value: of theit:
company.. Greenfings: would be unwilling to pay more: than the. cost: of setting-up a similar operation from,
Scratch, beating in mind that 0115 would leave: Adams ds a.competitor.
This -is an area’ where the: advisers may be able to help. ‘Negotiations between, thé two sets of directors are
hkely:to ‘be,involved, before a price will be;agreed.
Payment. @
Typically, takeovers are-achieved.by shares, loan.stocks or, cash, or some combination of these. ‘The:payment 4)
method used:must:be:acceptable:to Adams’ shareholders. This is a.crucial point. A
Issuing shares .or,loan-stocks will have some:financial gearing implications:for Greenfings. e
Shares:have the advantage tothe shareholders. of Adams that they continue:to hold an equity:interest, as they [৪
do. at: the: moment. On, the: other, hand, they may well prefer. to have cash. if. the ‘objective is. retirement. R
Moreover, Adams’ shareholders would probably not be too happy to. have: shares.in, an unlisted company: an
asset difficult.to realise., Returns. could'possibly be relatively high, but risky. L
Having “outsider” shareholders may not appeal.to Greenfings' shareholders. On the other hand, they may'see 8
Adams''shareholders:as having. some.expertise to be:usefully kept'in.touch.
To Greenfings: shares.represent ‘a relatively expensive form.of financing“in terms of servicing.costs, but itcis
low. risk from the 01621101189 point of. view as-there is no obligation to pay a dividend. A: share issue to the
shareholders:of Adams would.have a‘very low ‘issue:cost.
A loan. stock. issue to Adams' shareholders ‘might. be: acceptable to them, but they have been equity holders
and may prefer‘an. equity ‘investment. On the other hand, they may be pleased to. have. a. ‘guaranteed’ annual.
return. with good security. As with shares, however, disposal of. loan stock could beia problem, A loan ‘stock.
with.a- contractual redemption date might be an acceptable possibility.
From. Greenfings' point of view some: capital gearing might be welcome. The company seems to be lowly:
geared at present.
A cash payment to the directors of Adams would be likely to incur capital gains tax, as it would represent:a
disposal and could.crystallise:a liability.
Were cash. to be the. consideration. - and this looks to be the: most.likely to be: acceptable to Adams'
sharéholders-— this would have to be found. The:quote in the:question implies that Greenfings ‘does not-have
the*necessary amount of cash immediately available.
Cash
The most obvious source of cash, would be a rights issue to existing Gréenfings’ shareholders. This would
probably be the ideal solution. It would retain, control: with, the existing shareholders and not incréase the
financial risk. However, it might be difficult to achieve. The-shareholders may not be willing to injéct:more
of their personal funds, or they‘may not-have.the.funds or the ability 'to raise them,
Venture capital may be a, possibility here. We tend to see venture capitalists as providers of funds to fast
organic growth companies that will obtain, somie public market listing in the foreseeable future. Greenfings
may well not;fit'that. description, Exit:toutes will be a major factor‘for any provider of equity, particularly an.
‘outsider’.
Business’ planning, .valuation‘and restructuring | 537 5}

A loaf stock: issué or, more likely, a bank loan would be distirict possibilities, depending on, the: sort of
security on offer.and Greenfings' existing level of-financial gearing. Given that.Adains owns the freeholds on
most of ‘its’ sites, this is likely to mean that the value of these is a relatively high proportion of the agreed
value of Adams’ business.
From, Greenfings' point of view, loan financing tends tobe cheap, partly because of tax rélief on interest
payments, butit imposés 4 fixed cashflow obligation, both for the-interest and :fedemption.
Issue:costs for a rights issué of @ loan would be relativély:low:
The adviser would. probably be able‘to help with raising the necessaty:cash.
Takeover?
There is not too much difference to Greenfings whether it buys all.of the Adams’ shares (a takeover) or buys
all of the assets from Adams: It:may-wish to use the: 'Adams' name. Tt may wish to:keep the Adams’ part of:
the business with separate limited liability. In either of these cases, buying the shares may be better. One
advantage of acquiring the:assets ‘is that Greenfings would be in no-.danger of acquiring ‘unexpected liabilities
of-the company.
To the. shareholders of Adams, there ‘might: be:a.preference for a takeover. This relieves them. of, the task of
liquidating the company, though this ‘is not.a difficult or expensive task. in the circumstances. On the.other
hand, they may-wish.to retain the company shell for‘some other-venture..
Intermediary
Tt:might: be:helpful to,have someone-act:as a go-between.to supervise the negotiations. This ts a-role that the
adviser:might perform.
Other issues
Other questions that:could.usefully be‘addressed.are‘as follows.
e Has Greenfings sufficient management-expertise-to enablé:it to manage the larger enterprise?
e Will the economies.of scale extend.to.the larger enterprise?
e Ig it a-good:idea for’an unlisted company to.seek to.expand without: diversifying?
15 MYLOSON LTD
(a) (i), MYLOSON LTD INCOME STATEMENTS
Actual Forecast
20X2 20X3 20X4 20X5
CU'000 00000 শ0:000 0000
Revenue (increase 20% pa) 35744 4,493 ৩,391]. 6,470
Cost of sales (increase 20% pa), (2,280) (2,736) (3,283) (3,940)
Gross profit 1,464 1,757 2,108: 2,530
‘Operating-expenses (increase. 10% pa) (780) (858) (944) (1,038)
Depreciation (over. 10 yéars) (120) (120) (120).
Profit from.operations' 684 779 1,044 1,372
Interest: (assumed constant) (72) (72) (72) (72)
Profit before-tax 612 707 972 1,300:
Taxation (see. Working ‘1) (200). (128) (192) (268)
Net profit _ Al2 579 780. 1,032.
Dividend (20% growth pa) (1 63) (196) (235) (282).
Retained. profit 249 383 545 750
Reserves.b/f 550 799 1,182 1,727
Reserves.c/f 799 1,182 1,727 2,477
Share capital 1,200 1,200 1,200 1,200
Year’end.reserves 799 1,182 1,727 2,477
Year end shareholders" funds 1,999 2,382 2,927 3,677
Pre-tax return on shareholders funds 31% 30% 33% 35%:
‘WORKINGS
(1) ‘Tax payable
Actual. Forecast
376) | ‘Financial Management

20৯02 20X3 20xX4 20X5
00000 0000 CU‘000 CU'000
‘Profit before tax 612 707 972 1,300
Add back depreciation 0 120 120 120
‘Less capital allowance (18% ted /bal) (0) (216) (177) (145)
Taxable profit 612 611 915 1,275
Tax.at.21%:(actual for 20X2) 200 128 192 268
(2). Changes in net:current:assets
Receivables * 460 552 662 795
‘Receivables/Sales 12.3%
Trade Payables * * 324. 389 467 560
Trade Payablés/Cost of sales 14.2%
* receivables can’ be.computed as a 20% increase each year 0738 12.3%:of sales
* * trade payables-can be-computed-as a 20%.increase each year or'as: 14,2%.of cost-of sales
(3) Changes in nét.cuirrentiassets
Actual Forecast: __—
20X2 20X3 20x4 20X5 6
CU'000 CU:000: CU'000 CU'000 [|
Inventory (unchanged) 782 782 782 782 A
Receivables (12.3%:of sales) 460 552 662 795, e
Trade: payables (14.2% of costof sales) (324) (389) (467) (S60) iE}
Dividends’ payable (163) (196) (235) (282). R
Net:current:assets 755 749 742 735,
Increase/(decrease) in.net:current lo
(ii) ‘CASH FLOW FORECASTS
20X3 20X4 20X5
CU'000 0000 0000
‘Retained profit for the year. 383 545 750
Add, back depreciation 120 120 120
(Investment:in working:capital)/release ৩
‘working capital. (see Working:3) 6 7 7
Expenditure on non-current assets: (1,200)
Surplus/(deficit) for the year (691) 672 877.
Cash/(déficit) b/f 164 (527) 145
Cash/(deficit) c/f (527) 145 1,022
Reconciliation Cash<receipts‘and ‘payments
20x3 2054 205
Receipts CU'000 ০0000 CU'000
Cash from sales
(sales + opening receivables:— ‘closing receivables) 4,401 5,281 6,337
Payments
For purchases:(cost of. sales'+ opening
_payables — closing-payables) _ (2,671) _ (3,205) (3,847),
Operating expenses (858) (944). (1,038)
Machinery’ (1,200)
Interest (72). (72): (72)
‘Dividends (previous year) (163) (1,96) (235)
Business planning,.valuation‘and restructuring | 3777)

(5,092) (4,609) (5,460)
‘Net cash flow (6911) 672 877
Cash/(deficit) b/f ‘164 (527) 145
Cash/(deficit) c/f (527), 145 1,022
The-company.has a predicted shortfall at-the:end of 20X3 of CU527,000.
(b) “Tor The:directors of Myloson ‘Ltd.
From: RT Consiiltants Date: 2'May 20X3
Report on thie financial,forecasts of Myloson Ltd
AS requested. by the terms of reference, I’ have prepared. forecast income. statements and cash flow
forecasts for the-years 20X3 to.20X5.
(0) Key aspects-of the.financial information and the likelihood of. achieving the.objectives
‘While the:company is making good profits, the. calculations. show thatthe return.on shareholders’
funds: will be:maintained at over 30%.
The effect of the additional borrowing requirement in 20X3 will be to increase: -gearing. An
analysis: of the impact of using :debt.finance has not been carried out:here. However, it is possible
to:say‘that although interest:cover-(operating profit/interest) is:safe:in 20X2 at 10.5: times (684/72),
this figure will falLif borrowing the capital required.
‘In summary, the projections show, that the company is profitable, with. a. good growth rate
predicted but-a financial. strategy needs to be developed.
(01). Additional methods of financial forecasting
The: forecasts: prepared, for, this:report are prepared on. the basis of the assumptions. These’ appear
tather simplified. For example, the relationships: between ‘sales, costs, receivables ‘and payables
Temain. the: same over the period, ‘no. additional. inventory ,holdings ‘have been. budgeted’ for and
interest.on ‘additional borrowings has been:omitted.
A. more detailed set. of forecasts needs to. be prepared, on a month-by-month basis, ‘within. the
context.of the company's strategic plans. A computerised-planning model would be appropriate:for
assembling this information. Input to the forecasts will include:
e ‘Marketing; production and purchasing. plans; estimates from line managers of sales, costs,
ifiventory.and so.on
e ‘Statistical:analysis of the relationship between the: variables in the model ‘and a.cross-check:
against the managers’ detailed estimates
* Estimates of general economic factors and their likely effect’ on the: company and, the
industry as a'whole
¢ Estimates of-any likelychanges in the:behaviour‘and attitudes of ‘competitors, customers and,
suppliers
© — The:results of capital:investment ‘appraisal and other decisions.
There are-many ways of handling risk.and uncertainty in the-estimates. Suitable techniques:neéd
to be-chosen,from:
e The ‘preparation of best and ‘worst case:estimates;
‘6 —-Use of data tables to. show ranges of possible results?
@ Sensitivity ‘analysis-and the identification of ‘key’ variables;
‘© Assignment’ of probabiliti¢s to estimates;
° Use of simulation, for: complex.repetitive:uncertain events;
® Scenario planning and the-deyelopment of contingency plans.
16: MT.
(a) (i) Forecast income statement for the'year ending:30 April 20X6
‘Shares Loan:stock;
0000 cu'000
378} | ‘Financial Management

‘Operating: profit:(5.5m:+ 8% সম 15m) 65700: 6,700.
Interest 1,000° 1,900
Profit before tax 53700: 4,800.
Tax. (21%) 1,197 1,008:
Profit after taxation 4,503 3,792.
Dividend (PAT x 29.54% payout ratio) 1,330 ‘1,120
Retained profit for the’year 3,173 2,672
(ii) Forecast earnings per share.
‘Share issue = —Number of:shares currently in issue 4,000;000
— New ’shares issued _(9,000,000/3) 3,000;000
7,000,000
, 4,503,000
‘Earnings per share. = =———___..
7,000,000
= CU0.643
Debt.issue
. 3,792,000:
‘Earnings per share. 9 = ———~__
4,000,000
= CU0,948 _
(iii) Projected level of gearing ও
Share issue = ০০ _ A
4,000 + 9,000 + 10,500 +. 3, 1.734 12,500 IP
= 31.9% u
a ee ete Settee 12,500 + 9,000. R
‘Loan Stocksigsue © | = 245 _—___
4,000 + 10,5004 2,672+ 12,500+ 9,000 |
= 55.6% 8
(b) Shareholder — loan holder conflicts
(i) Different attitudes to risk and:return
Shareholders: may want MT ‘to ‘undertake: risky projects with correspondingly high :expected
returns.. Loan holders will. want:-MT to. undertake projects:that.guarantee sufficient.returns to’ pay
their interest:each year, and ultimately to:repay their loans.
Here shareholders may be ‘happy with 016 prospect. of high returns: eventually, but: loan holders
may. be:more doubtful that the increased operating profits:fromthe new: products will.cover the
extra interest burden. If extra debt :is issued, interest cover ‘will fall from. 5.5 in 20X5. to 3.5 in
'20X6, and. loan. holders will be aware. :that: the directors are’ planning’ even more: speculative
‘investments in future:
Gi) ‘Dividends
Large (albeit) legal dividends ‘niay ‘be preferred by shareholders, but may concern, loan, holders,
because the payments leave low cash’ balarices in.MT-and hence put at risk MT's ability to:meet
its. commitments to. the loan holders.
Here although the directors have sought to maintain dividend levels at’ a constant payout ratio,
they may come underpressuré from shareholders to maintain dividends at ayminimum level.
(ii) Attitudes to further finance
In this: situation, shareholders ‘may prefer MTT, to raise additional finance. by: means of. loans, in.
order:to avoid having to contribute themselves in a rights issue; or-the risk of, dilution 01 their
‘shareholding and hence power if'an open stock market issue is made. Coan holders may not-wish
MT to take on the burden ‘of additional debt: finance, ‘because: it may increase the risk, that, the
interest that, they are. due: will ‘not be paid, or MT will have problems. repaying their loans,
particularly-if:the new loans rank above theirs.
Business’ planning,.valuation‘and restructuring | 537.9)

(iv), Lack.of conflict
The-risks of‘gearing-affect not.only loan. stock holders but.also shareholders. As gearing levels rise:
shareholders also perceive an increase in the risk; that they face in terms of the: company being
profitable and liquid enough to service and ,répay the loan finance: Therefore in, Some: situations
both: shareholders and loan, stock holders may both prefer additional issues of sharés rather than,
loans.
Impact:of loan holders
(i) Restrictions imposed by bondholders
‘Loan holders can enforce ‘any restrictions in their loan agreements such as charges ‘preventing
MT :from,selling assets or taking out new:loans.. These may limit MT's ability to make. profitable
‘investments and thus maximise-returns:for, shareholders.
(01). ~Renegotiation of: debt
Ultimately. current loans ‘will. have to. be repaid. If MT has: stretched previous loan agreements,
either the current loan holders ‘will’ be:‘able to impose: new and. more. onerous. terms, or the
directors will have: to seek loan finance from other lenders: who will.impose: their.own terms. It
may become more: difficult for MT to raise sufficient funds:for‘investment on.acceptable:terms or
at:an acceptable-cost of capital.
(iii) Liquidation
If MT defaults, the.loan.holders can.enforce.any security they.have, which may undermine MT's:
ability to continue trading. Ultimately, they can.‘take action to force MT into liquidation,,
‘although this:may jeopardise their chances of receiving’full repayment.
17 HIGHGATE LTD
“Year, I 2 3 4 5+
CUm CUm CUm. CUm CUm
Sales (W) 605.0 653.4 686.1 706.7
Operating ‘profit 60.5 18.4 82.3 84.8
Tax (12.7) (16.5) (17:3) (17.8)
Operating*cash.flow 47.8 61.9 65.0 67.0
‘Incr. non-cutrentassetiexpense (W). 8.7 (1.9) (0.7) (0:4)
Incr. working capital,investment.(W): (2.2): (1.5) (0.7) (0.4)
Free-cash flow 543 58.5 63:6 66:2. 860.6
‘Discount factor 0:926 0,857 0.794 0.735 0.735
Present: value: 50.3 50.1 50:5 48:7 632.5
Total present‘valtie =-CU832. 1m
Valuie‘of equity = CU832.1m,— CU225m = CU607.1m
Value:per, share:=:CU607.1m/50m = CU12.14
WORKING
“Year, 0 a 2 3. 4
CcUm CUm cUm CUm €Um
Sales (increasing at given rates) 550.0: 605.0 653.4 686.1 7067
Sales increase: 55.0 48.4 32:7 20.6
Incr.:non-current asset expense 3.3 1.9 0.7 0.4
Non-current asset:sale in year | (12.0)
Total (8.7) 1.9 0.7 0.4
Tner, working'capital investment 2.2 1:5 0.7 0.4
350 | ‘Financial Management

oo
ক ee ২ ১২ A Ee oe
ES ১৬ নে ক em eo ee aca Sina ares | = = ২ ৮ সে ০০০,
2 ans SO es oo ee
Ld ey Ay ime) TEE Bau ee a pei he SS ee
EG seee (ig ee ie Oh a Sa ee
CHAPTER 9:
Managing financial risk:
imterest rate and.other risks
Introduction.
Examination.context.
Topic List

1 Introduction to derivatives

2 Forwards and futures

3. Options

4 Intérest-rate risk

5. Interest:rate futures

6 Interest,rate options

7 Interest:rate swaps
Summary ‘and.Self-test
Answers to Interactive:questions
Answers. to:Self-test:

[fo

Introduction

Learning objectives Tick off
© =‘ To.identify and.describe the.key:financial risks facing.a business [i]
e To-show and explain how financial instruments can be-used to manage-those:risks il
© To describe the characteristics of financial instruments used for hedging LI
Syllabus references relating-to. this chapter-are 2a, b, ¢;-e,
Syllabus links’
This topic.complements the foreign exchange :hedging.in the-next chapter. These hedging techniques will be: further
developed and applied at advanced level.
Examination context
In-the exam you are likely to be asked to explain how derivatives provide a hedge against-risks, and you:may ‘have
to illustrate this with non-complex:calculations.

0390 | ‘Financial. Management

1. Introduction 'to:derivatives
Section overview
Meas e _ A derivative is a financial instrument whose value derives. from.something else eg an option-on a share:
e A futures contract is a. standardised contract! to buy or. sell. a specific: amount of. a. notional ‘underlying
commodity on.a.certain.date.
০ —_ Futures. give a:fixed price whereas options. provide a. maximum _or. 3 minimum price.
০ 00116580110 options can be‘used for hedging or for-speculation.
1.1. Exploring:risk:
Risk: and. the impact it, has on investment, appraisal ‘was: explored ‘in Chapter 3. In this chapter and the. next we
explore what can.be done about:protecting:investors.
Where.does it:come The: risk. facing ‘any. business comes from a variety .of factors’ eg: customer. demand,
from? rivals’ ‘actions, economic. environment, social and demographic conditions,
technological.change, cost’structures etc. Many ofthese 11100611063 3876 explored.in ‘more
-depth in Business Strategy:
‘Some of the risk facing 'a business derives. from price. changes eg’ interest rates,
exchange:rates and.for'commodities.
Impact.on:investors Many of ‘the above influences will cause profits to alter, and therefore share prices 0
change, resulting:in:risks ultimately being bomne:by- investors.
The purpose of. hedging is to remove or.reduce price risk. A range of hedging devices exists to address risks — this:
chapter will explore price risks: associated. with:shares, commodities and.interest rates:
The next chapter. looks at:currency. risk.
: Definition: .
aa Derivative: is a financial security whose: value is derived. from. the: value and. characteristics of an ‘underlying A
"security. Option contracts, futures:and swaps are'types of derivative. P
2 Forwards.and futures R
Em Section overview ——
(Gaui
66৫ . ; দা রা
এ] « ‘Forward contracts.allow a, price:to be sét.in advance,
° —_- Futures. hedges provide a.fixed ‘price.
০ = Futures-are available oh commodities, shares, currencies-and interest’rates. .
° ‘Futures ‘are. standardised.contracts.
To help introduce the area of hedging’risk, and before we move’ onto derivatives themselves, consider a simple
instrument known-as a forward contract.
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 63.9 ||

2.1. Forwards
[5A _ Definition:
ae A‘forward contract is a.binding agreement to exchange a set amount.of' goods:at.a set-future. date.at a‘ price-agreed
° — today..
Forward contracts-allow businesses fo:set the price of.a;commodity well in-advance. They are particularly*suitable
in-commodity. markets such.as gold, oil.and:agriculture where prices:can be.highly volatile.
Cc Worked ‘example:‘Commodity forward contract

A manufacturer of-chocolaté needs*to purchase cocoa beafis for future production and Wwants'to acquire them ‘for a

fixed price,

The manufacturers can achieve this by agreeing with. the producer of cocoa beans to purchase a quantity for

delivery at:a specific.date in the-future-at.a price agreed now.

In,January, when the price of a consignment of cocoa beans is-CU1,000, the-chocolate manufacturer agrees a price

with the:suppliér of CU1,100‘for.delivery.at;the end of March.

The price'for both parties is:now set —and thus whilst-the market price.in March may, be higher-or lower. than the

agreed price of CU],100, the benefit for both: parties is that they have certainty, and.so are better able to: plan and

budget effectively:

Forward contracts, are tailor made between.two parties. Whilst this.is useful as.a means of giving each:party what.

they want, it does. make them awkward to cancel, .as the counter party needs to. agree. This -is one of the reasons

why a ‘futures. contract might be used. — see section 2:2 below. Nevertheless, forward markets for some:

commodities flourish; particularly foreign. exchange. This:is explored.in:Chapter 10.

‘2:2: Futures

Whilst these are. very’similar to forward contracts and.ultimately achieve the-same end from/a. hedging perspective,

ie a fixed price, there/are some.significant differences.

A future represents a’ commitment. to: an. additional transaction in the: future. that limits. the’ risk: of. existing

commitments.

LIL Future: is a standardised contract to buy..or sell a specific amount 01 a commodity, currency or. financial.
a instrument:atia particular price:on a stipulated.future:date.
| a ‘Worked example: Commodity-futures
1 January.
: (a) Qn 1 January the price (the spot:price):of a consignment of cocoa beans.is 001,000 in the cocoa :market..

(b) You want to buy:a consignment:of cocoa beans on,31 March:on this cocoa market, but the price is'uncertain..

(c) You buy separately on a futures market:a three-month cocoa futures.contract at CU.1,100 that expires.on 3:1
March. This:means you.are.committing-to buying a. consignment of.cocoa.beans, not-at:today’s spot'price, but.
at the:futures price of. 001,100, which represents. what:the futures market.thinks the ‘spot price-will.be:on 31
March.

31.March

(a) You buy the consignment of*cocoa beans.on 31 March fromthe cocoa,market, while-the spot price-on that
date:is CUI ,200.

(b) Under the futures contract’you are still committed to buying the consignment at CU1,100 on 31 March, but.
that will :mean that you have. two consignments of cocoa beans rather than just ‘the one you: need. You
therefore. sell তাও] March. the futures contract you bought on. 1 January to eliminate this additional
commitment.

5৮৮ | ‘Financial Management

Assuming that the futures contract at 31“ March, is now priced at ০01,200 (as-this is the same asthe. spot’
pricé-on/3.1, March), you-will sell the‘futures contract for 001,200.
(c) Because you have sold the contract:for more than the purchase price, you have made-a gain on the futures
contract’ of. CU1,200 — CU1,100. = CU100. This can be ‘set. against. the: purchase you: made: in the cocoa
market.
Net cost = €U1,200 - ০0100 =:CU1,100
ie supplies haye been-obtained at a fixed price, being the:futures price.
A summary'of the transactions is as follows:
Prices on the:cocoa market Prices on.the futures’market'
1 January: prevailing Price for buying cocoa . ,
price (the-spot price) 04000 for March delivery CUI,100
31 ‘March: prevailing’ Price for selling*cocoa লা:
price:(the:spot price); ০01,200 for March:delivery ০01,200
Increase in cost.of cocoa CU200 Gain. from trading CUI00:
in.cocoa market futures:contracts
As noted above, ‘the increase’ in the cost of cocoa-has: been hedged ‘by the trading carried out on the futures
market.
These are two sepdrate. markets — ‘the cocoa market is involvéd. with buying and. selling physical
consignments of cocoa. The futures market is:not. Notice that on the futures market no physical. delivery has
taken place. Rather, the opening contract ‘to buy:in March has been cancelled by an-opposing:contract to sell.
in-March,
The net effect of these-is:
° Buy the cocoa in the cocoa market for 01,200
© 18606 gain on’the futures market €U100
০ — Overall,cost:of the-cocoa CU1,100. GC
SR নন ২ ন od ২১১১ ২, A
2.3: The‘development.of.futures ‘contracts RP
Futures are derivatives: which have ‘their origins in the markets for commodities. such as wheat, coffee, sugar, v
meat, oil, base metals and precious:metals. 8
° The prices of all_of these commodities fluctuate seasonally and.are also subject to large changes because ০৫
unpredictable:events-such.as storms,,drought,. wars and. political unrest.
© 06 avoid the uncertainty: arising from large ‘swings.in prices, buyers and sellers ofthese commodities would
agree quantities. and prices in-advance ie a forward.contract. This encourages investment in production and
benefits buyers’and sellers alike by enabling them to plan in advance:
Originally the buyer and-seller. would agree’ a-forward price for settlement by actual'delivery of.an.agreed amount
of. the commodity on an‘agreed date. As a protection against defaulting on the-deal, both:parties would put-down‘a
deposit.
However, the commodity futures ‘markets developed rapidly when the ‘contracts were standardised in terms of.
delivery date and.quantity. This enabled the futures contracts to. be'traded purely. on.the basis of price, like shares
‘on. a stock. exchange and thus. separates. the futures. market from ‘the ‘physical commodity :market. The ‘London
International Financial ‘Futures and Options Exchange (LIFFE). was set up in 1982, and in. 2000 became part. of
Euronext to. form:Euronext.Liffe.
Traditionally, derivatives have been uséd to hedge market price risk: For example, currencies, ‘interest. rates,
commodity, and, share prices all change, Those changes can be-hedgéd against by using the various hedges outlined
above.
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 5393)

2:4! Index futures

These can be used ‘to protect against falls in ‘the ‘value of. a ‘portfolio. of. shares, thus: are: of. real importance to
companies with significant investments, such as‘pension funds:
Traded. futures are. available. based on the FTSE. 100 share: index. The: transaction costs of investing in these.
futures are. much. less than ‘the costs of actually selling and buying shares. Use of futures is an alternative. to
adjusting’the share:portfolio, which:may not be appealing:
Each. contract is ‘for 4 notional value of the futures price multiplied. by:CU10, Thus, if the FTSE index futures
price:stands at 4;500, the‘notional value ০13 contract is.CU45,000:
Index: futures ‘can be useful to an investor in a number, of, ways, cither, for speculative purposes or as a hedge’
against risk of adverse. movements in market prices generally:

: Worked‘example: Using index futures to set up a portfolio hedge 3

| The investment manager of Moonstar. Pensions Fund is. concerned, that share prices wiil fall, over the. next month
and, wishes to. hedge against this using FI'SE stock index: futures. The fund's pension portfolio comprises
investments which have a:market’value of CUS million on 1 June 20X3..
On_1 June:20X3:the following prices.are:observed:
The prevailing: value-(ie spot-value) of ‘the FTSE.100 index is 5,000
The quote for‘September FTSE: 100 index:futures:is 4,980
The face’ value.of a. FTSE'100.index contract.is: CU10 per-index ‘point.
Using 'the:futures price. of the FTSE 100,index, this: gives a:contract value. of 4,980. x.CU10;= CU49,800°
Requirement.
Demonstrate what.hedge'should be undertaken to protect:the. portfolio against:falls in share prices.
Calculate:number of contracts
We should sell futures to protect our portfolio..
Number. of contracts = Market value of portfolio arket value of portfolio

Value of one,contract
_©¥5,000,000
০49,800
= 100.4:rounded.to 100 contracts
We can.assess the results of:the hedge by. examining the. situation.at‘a later date.
৭] Worked'example: How index futures provide a hedge if the market falls

On .30,June 20X3, the:market-value-of the.shares in the-portfolio:was:€U4.8 million.

, The FTSE 100*index and the ‘futures. index. both:stood at:4,800 on that date.
Requirement
Calculate the:outcome of the hedge. that Moonstar-has undertaken..
Step 1
Position:in spot market:

0394] | ‘Financial Management

Loss on portfolio. = CU4.8 01111074005 million
= CU0.2 million
Step 2
Calculate:gain or-loss on futures
Buy futures.at.lower price than we sold them-for(closing.out)
Gain on futures = (4,980—4,800) x:CU10, x: 100-contracts
= CU180;000
Step 3
Calculate:net position
Net'position = CU180,000 gain.on.futures'—-CU200,000.loss. on ‘portfolio
=.CU(20,000).loss. overall
Note: the hedge:is less than 100% efficient becausé of'basis (ie.the | June FTSE index value and ‘the futures price
are-different).and the rounding of the-number of contracts. See section.2.6 below.
| BS Worked 'éxample:'The impact of hedging if the market rises’
On.30.June 20X3, the market value‘of the shares in the portfolio was CUS. 1. million.
The FTSE 100:index and the:futures. index. both-stood.at’5,100 on that date.
Requirement
Explain what: happens as:a consequence-of the hedge.
Step 1
Position:in spot market.
Gain on portfolio = €U5:1' million --CUS5 million'="CU0.1 million
Step 2 ৪
Calculateigain or.loss.on futures: wD
Initially soldfutures’for. 4,980 P
Now buy futures*for. 5,100 v
Logs on closing out futures (120):x.CU10-x: 100 coritracts = CU120,000 B
Step 3
Calculate net position:
Net position CU100,000 gain on portfolio
(120,000) Joss on-futures
CU(20;000) Joss:overall.
The objective. of a futures hedge is to remove risk which is achieved by fixing the price. The benefit is. that
downside.risk is:eliminated; the disadvantage is that:any upside is.also removed.
To summarise.the above worked examples:
Poarketcises 11131001311
Value of, portfolio 5,100,000 4,800;000
Gain (loss) on. futures market ; (120,000) . 180,000
Net.effect CU4,980;000. CU4,980,000.
In.each situation, the’value. of the portfolio stays the same.
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 8

The hedge is .not:100% efficient, as noted below.
2:6; The main elements of.futures transactions:
০ The contract ‘size The contract: size is: the fixed quantity which can. be bought or sold. using a futures
contract.
In, general, dealing ‘on futures: markets must be. in a whole numberof contracts. The
implication .of this. is that the amount of an exposure and. the amount covered by a
futures hedge may:not.match;exactly.
০ The contractprice The contract price:is the‘price:at'which the futures contract.can.be bought or sold.
The contract ‘price is the-figure’ which is traded on the futures exchange.on the’ date.the
company ‘originally purchases the futures contract. It changes continuously and is. the
means for computing ‘gains or losses..
e The settlement The settlement date (or delivery date, or expiry date), is ‘the date when ‘trading on a
date particular futures contractistops and all accounts are settled.
For example,:the settlement dates for.all currency futures aré at the end of March, June,
September and December.
০: The initial margin When futures contracts are bought‘or sold, a deposit. known.as the ‘initial ‘margin must
be advanced.
The ‘size’ of. this: margin. depends: on. the actual ‘contract but might: typically amount. to
about:5% of. the value of contracts dealt‘in. This deposit is refunded when the-contract:is
closed out:
The objective of the: initial margin is to cover any. possible losses made ‘from, the -first
day's trading, Thereafter, any’variations:in the-contract price are covered. by a variation
margin. Profits are: advanced to: the trader's. account but losses must be covered’ by
advancing’further ‘collateral. This process is known:as marking to.market.
e Basis The price of a:futures contract-may be different from the-spot price.on.a given.date, ‘and
this difference%is the basis. The ‘exception is.on the expiry date, when.the basis is zero.
Basis = spot price —‘futures price
The effect of basis is.to prevent: hedges from being 100% efficierit-ie the change in the
spot-over a period is-not matched exactly by the-change in the:futures price.
You will not be asked to calculate basis:in the:examination, but:just:to recognise that it.
causes hedges to be less than. 100% efficient.
০ Hedge efficiency The only risk to. hedgers is that the futures ‘market. does not always provide a perfect
hedge.
(a) The: first: reason is that the value of the: commodity being hedged (whether. ‘it is
shares, currency ‘or.interest) must.be rounded to a whole. number of contracts, causing
inaccuracies.
(b) The second. reason.is basis risk as noted‘above.
A-measure.of hedge efficiency compares the profit: made on the futures: market with:the loss
made‘on the.cash or.commodity:market, or vice'versa.
3 Options:
হা
Section overview
reas e চি! option gives, the:nght, not the obligation, to trade.
¢ Options can be:exchange. traded options-or an over the:counter.(OTC) option.
9 Traded options.are standardised.
° Options have an-intrinsic value and.a time value.
£396} | ‘Financial Management

'ও.1. The ‘nature’of an option.
[5A _ Definition:
as An option is an, agreement giving the buyer, of the option the right, but:not the obligation, to buy or to sell. a
7 ~ specific quantity of something. (eg shares: in a company, a. foreign currency’ or. a commodity) at a known. or
determinable. price:within.a stated period..
Options offer:a choice between
° Exercising your right to buy or:sell at a:pre-determined price:(known as‘the exercise price, or strike.price),
and
° Not exercising this right: allowing the option to lapse, sometimes known as, abandoning ‘the option, — an,
option which is not used.is either discarded or, possibly, sold'to somebody else who might find, it;valuable, if
the-rules.allow this
It:is this element-of:choice whichis the:distinction between options and futures.
| A Worked example: Share options,
. What is the effect;on an investor owning an-option which gives;the right to buy a:share in. company: X for:CU2.00?
: Current:share price:of:company, X:is-CU2.00
Consider the impact:of the share price.of company"X
(a) Rising to.CU2:50
(b) Falling:to:CU1.70
Currently,.the option.has‘no intrinsic value,:as exercising the option 'means:
CU
Cost;of €o X share«using.the-option (2)
Sélling-price:of Co X share-=. 2
: 0
iC)
If the share price changes [||
গ্যাস. Company.X A
| | —
‘Share price Share price T
rises falls B
cu CU মি
Can ‘sell the share-for the prevailing price 2.50 1.70 |
(০9001 company X share’ "18 option to buy 2.00 2.00
Exercise therefore. gains 0.50 Abandon
In:summary, holding an:option gives upside:but removes downside. —
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 397)

Ehange 4 Impact of owning an‘option:to buy
in: a share with an. exeércisé price-of £2 V2
Wealth 4
£0.50 ee ee 7 র্যা
od
রি!
fi 1
cu cu CU. 1'
f 1
- 7:70 £2.00 £2.50 j
Note: If the ‘share ‘itself had been owned, a. drop in the share price to CU1.70 would. have resulted :in a loss: of
CU0.30.
Change ‘4 Impact of,owning a share with,
in a current share price Sf £2. Sf:
wealth Sf
‘£0:50° TR Rn a তত তত জজ ee eS Oe
cu '। রগ
Loss: £0:30' তে তত ete তত তত তত তে তাতে এতে ঢা ha
3.2: Options:terminology:
The following paragraphs use share options to illustrate: the different types of options and the: terminology
involved.
Over. the A company or an investor can. arrange a tailor-made option for their specific needs ‘with a
counter financial institution, and. this is called an over-the-counter (OTC) option. OTE share options
options may: be-for-any.number of shares or-other stocks.
SB | ‘Financial Management

চ105:3110 ৫৪115. ০ ক call option means’ 11 investor is.entitled to buy the shares at the exercise:price within the
specified period
e A put option means an investor has the.right to sell the shares at the exercise: price within
the:specified. period
The price written into the-option is called the exercise price or strike price.
Relationship e An option.is said to be in'the money ‘when, if it is:exercised today, a profit would be made
between:strike
price and spot © An-option is said to-be-out of the:money when,.if it-were-exercised today, a loss would be
price made (consequently it would:not:be exercised today)
০ An option is said .to be atthe, money if the exercise price equals. the underlying. security
price
These can, be issued by a: company as a way of-rewarding employees. The:feature:of share options:is that they give:
the right to apply for shares at a.date-in the future, at a specified price that will probably be favourable to the
applicant.
For example, a public. company whose-shares are curtently tradéd at-CU2‘6n the stock: market might award,share
options to some of its employees,.giving them the righit to-apply for a.quantity of shares.at-a 08671), the future. atva
price-of, say, CU2. Provided that the market price ofthe :shares rises above CU2 by:the time. the-options can be.
exercised, the employees would: then_be able:
০. 0০0 obtain:some.shares, and.so get'an.equity interest‘in their company, ‘or
© To obtain some shares and then sell them, at a profit — ‘the share options would. then give, In effect, a cash
bonus
These are:options to buy or’sell assets that already exist. ডে
For example, if a pure option to buy-a company's shares is exercised then 016-001100811% does not-issue.néw shares, 11
but rather. the;seller, of ‘the option must.buy shares 11016 company. on the stock market at the. prevailing 01102 810. A
sell them to'the 00001970101, দন
Similarly a-currency. 000011-15 417). 000011-00 10035015611, currency: which.already exists. No:new currency: is.issued E}
by the government. R
3:4: Option writers and option:purchasers:
A pure option. is créated by an option. writer. This will, typically be: a large: financial organisation such, as. an
investment bank,
| Kg ‘Worked example: Writing a call option; —
. Suppose that the writer‘drafts an-option-contract and gives‘it to another party (whom: we will call the holder) which
“allows the.holder'to buy:one hundred shares in-Fonex Ltd.(a fictional.company) ‘at.400 pence each on-30.June, The
company’s share price is.at the moment-390 pence, Consider the-holder's position if-the share‘price-on 30 June?
(a) Risés.to.450 pence
(b) Falls to 330 pence.
Solution:
(a) The option ‘holder exercises. the right to ‘buy 100 shares at 400p each and ‘immediately sells them on the
market.for 450 pence:each, making:a total gain of 050. ‘Where does the holder buy the:shares at. 400p? No.
new shares. are-issued, so the option holder must buy them-from the-option writer. 1016 option writer does
not own Fonex:shares, he must.buy them on the market:for.450p and:sell them to the-option holder, for. 4007,
making-a loss of 50p x 100. = CUSO. So in situation (a), the option holder makes a profit; out; of the option
writer,
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | SD

Alternatively, we could say thé writer has 10$00507.,
(b) The holder'does not exercise the option, but allows it tolapsé. Both’the holder and the-writer have:made no
gain and no loss.
The option holder will clearly.be very happy with this option a4gréement., If Fonex shares:rise she makes again, but
if‘they fall she-makes no loss. The writer, however, is in.a no-win situation. If the shares rise, he loses, and if-they
fall he makés no gain.
35° Premium,
So why would anybody want to write:options?
The answer‘is because the writer does not give the options away ‘but sells them..
In.order'to.acquire an.option, then, you.have to purchase it, Note.that this‘is different from.a future, You-haye to
purchase an option. because ‘it gives you ‘a ‘powerful choice, which ‘you ‘can ‘use: to limit ‘your ‘risk: The option
writer accepts the risk, which‘the purchaser:avoids. The‘ writer: therefore-needs to be paid in compensation.
The cost of ‘an. option.to.a purchaser:is known as the option premium — the’same term as the price of an insurance
policy.
| ey | Interactive question’1: Impact of a put option (Difficulty level: Intermediate]
Lie Illustrate the effect on an investor of-purchasing‘a put‘option on.a share:in.company-X, given the following:
| CU
Current:share-price 1.70
Exercise price 2.00
Premium: 0.10
(a) 10016 share price rises to:CU2.00
(b) If the share ‘price rises to CU2.50
Show:-diagrammatically the outcomes from
(i) Holding the share
(it) Buying the-put
(iti) Holding'the share and buying the-put,
See. Answer at the end: of this chapter.
3:6. Traded ‘options:
One 01016 disadvantages of OTC options is that because they are all different, there.is no.ready market for them.
This problem.is overcome by’ traded options, these are:standardised and are traded.on Euronext:Liffe-and similar
exchanges.
An,American-style option is an option that:can'be:exercised.on-any day-until the expiry. date.
A European-style option. is one which. can, only be exercised ‘on the expiry date. This terminology is however
potentially misleading, since most options traded.in Bangladesh and.Europe are in fact American<options.
There are two:parties to:each traded.option contract:
The person. who ‘receives ‘the option premium in exchange for granting an option, known as the: seller 01
writer,.as noted above in section,3.4
e The person who buys the option
( a Worked ‘example: Prices: of, traded: options
(6 চা1063:0108020 share options are quoted in tables, such-as'the following:for'options on.shares in Reuters.
' Reuters:—:underlying security price 679 (7 -May):(1)
Calls (2) Puts (3)
Exercise price Jul Oct Jan. Jul Oct Jan
(4) 650 ৩52 67 84 14% 24 31%
700, 25 এ], 58 (5) 37% 44৮2 55
400 | ‘Financial Management

This table shows‘the following:.
(1) Reuters:shares are:trading at.679 pence on 7 May.
(2) Call or buy options.are available with expiry dates.at the end of July, October and January.
(3) Put orsell-options are:also available with expiry dates at the end‘of July; October-and January.
(4) Two possible exercise prices. éxist, one below the-current share price (650p) and one-above the current. share:
price (700p).
(5) The figures in.the.table:show the price,(premium) per share of'each-option’contract:in pence.
(a) A call option is in the money if the exercise price is below the underlying security price. All the 650
call optionsvare.in the money, and all the 700.call options are out of the:money.
(0) A/put option is in, the money if the exercise price is above the undeflying, security price: All the 700
put options.are in the:money, and.all of the:650 put options.are:out.of the money,
10016 Reuters ‘share price were to rise:to’700p, all the-700 options would ৮০:৪0 the:money.
For all traded options there will be at leastioné exercise price above the:currént share price-and another below ‘it: If
the. Reuters share price were to rise above 700p (for at least’three days) anew series of options with.exercise price
750p. would be created..
3.7: Intrinsic value and time premium
The intrinsic yalue-of an option.is computed by assuming that-its expiry date is today.
‘In: the money" options would be exercised ‘and have an ‘intrinsic. value equal to’ the ‘difference between. the:
exercise price and.the current share price.
“Out of. the money" options would not be exérciséd.and would therefore have-zero intrinsic‘value.
The intrinsic value:of calls and puts can be summarised in.the.following formulae.
(a) The-intrinisic value of @.call option is the higher of (i) share-price-minus exercise price; and 01) zero.
(b) The intrinsic’value:of ‘a.put option is.the higher of 0) exercisé price minus-share-ptice; and (ii):zero.
ie intrinsic value depends on the:exercise price and, the current share price. with a minimum. value of. zero (it can টে
never be:negative). HA)
| + ‘Worked‘example:-Intrinsic values, P
Intrinsic values of the:Reuters options’as at 7 May‘in a particular year are‘shown in ‘the table below. u
Intrinsic values —.Reuters’share options (underlying share price =:679) R
Calls Puts
-Exercise price Jul Oct: Jan Jul Oct. Jan |
650. 29 29 29 0 0 0
700 0 0 0 21 21 21
3:8. 11116 0101001011151
By comparing with the original table, we: can see that in all cases ‘the actual option prices are higher মাথা! the:
intrinsic’ value. This is because:dptions also have a-time value or time premium.
In the period between today (in this:example, 7 May) ‘and the: expiry date of the-options there is a chance’ that’the
share:price might rise, giving greater gains for call options, or.it'might:fall, benefiting ‘put:options.
The time value can be computed for each option as the difference between the option's ‘actual ‘value and _ its
intrinsic value.
| A ‘Worked example: Time values:
Time values — ‘Reuters share options (underlying share price =:679)
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 40) 1|

Calls Puts

Exercisé price Jul ‘Oct Jan. Jiil Oct Jan

650 23 38 55 1412 24 31%

700, 25 4] 58. 16% 2312 34
Note that the:'time value of a// options increases. with the time period to-expiry. 116-0106-"8106 actually depends
on‘a.number of. factors, ‘which include:
° 6 time period.to expiry-of the option —the.longer the time toexpiry, the more:the:option is‘worth
e — The -yolatility-of the underlying sécurity: price —.a more: volatile security price-increases the likelihood of the

option being:in,the.money and therefore increases the-value of the option
০. The-general.level of. interest rates (the time value of money) — the: exercising, of the option will. be at-some.

point in the future, and:so the: value of the:option.depends on.the present: value:of the’exercise price. Eg.for'a

call, if interest rates:rise the present’ value:of the.exercise price falls-and the‘option.is more valuable

3.9 Index options
Traded options are ayailable.on'the FTSE 100 share index.
The contract size is for a.notional value of thé exercise price multiplied. by CU10. Thus, if the: exercise price:
stands at 4,500, the notional value of-a contract‘is CU45,000 (as for futures). ‘Exercise prices aré:set:at‘intervals of
50:index points (eg-4,400, 4;450,:4;500, 4,550 etc).
Index: options can. be useful to an.inyestor in acnhumber of ways, either for speculative; purposes ‘or as a ‘hedge’
against risk of adverse. movements in market prices generally:
| The investment, manager of Moonstar Pensions Fund is, concerned that share. prices will, fall over the. next month
and. wishes to. hedge-against-this using June-FTSE stock-index options.
The fund's pension portfolio:comprises:investments; which have a. value of CU4 million-on 1 June 20X3.
On, |, June:20X3 ‘the following options are.available.
FTSE 100 INDEX OPTION ৮4000) CU10 ‘per full index point
3900 3950 4000 4050: 4100
Cc P fe P নে P c P নে P
June 135 30 100 44 70 66 45 95: 30 130
July: 210 90 180 110 150: 130 120 155 100 185
August 270 130 240 ‘150 215 175 185 195 160 220
*Underlying.index value.
Requirement
Demonstrate what:happens if either of the-following two situations arises on.30-June.
(a) The-portfolio value falls-to CU3.8 million, and the FTSE index drops to 3,800.
(b) The portfolio value:rises to CU4.] million and.the FTSE index rises to 4,100.
Solution:
Step 1
Set up the hedge
41021 | ‘Financial Management

০ = What,sort?
The concern is'that:the value ofthe: portfolio held by the;fund will fall, so an, option: to sell is. required. Thus-a
June‘ put.option.with-an.exercise price of 4,000 is: purchased. (ie the-4,000, exercise price:is closer 'to- maintain
the existing valuec:of the portfolio)
৩ How many?
The portfolio value:is CU4 million
The exercise price of the:option.is 4,000
The value of.one contract is:4,000 x CU10 = CU40,000
The number of option contracts required to cover .a portfolio of CU4 million is therefore:
CU4million/CU40,000 = 100 contracts
Step 2
What does it.cost?.
The premium payable for 100-June puts at 4,000 is 66 points per contract.
66 points x CU10 per point x 100 contracts:=CU66,000
Step 3
Do'we exercise?
Index.rises. ‘Index falls
FTSE 100:index 4,100 3,800,
Put option gives tight-to‘sell.at. 4,000. 4,000
Abandon Gain:200 ‘on’exercising
Value of options. 0 200.x CU10:=:2,000
'x. 100 contracts = CU200,000
Step 4 ডে
Overall position A
cu CU P
Value of portfolio 4,100,000 3;800,000 T
Gain on.option 200,000 B
Note that the option removes the 4,100,000 4,000,000 R
downside'risk but:leaves the:upside.
potential. ;
Cost‘of the premium. (66,000) (66,000)
CU4,034,000 CU3;934,000.
4 Interest rate risk:
=> . A
Section overview
৫১১ ০ Interest:rate. movements create.risks for companies.
° Hedges available-incluide forward rate agreements (FRAs), futures, options and swaps.
4.1. Introduction
Corporate treasurers: will be,responsible for managing the company's cash.and borrowings so.as to be able to repay
debts as they fall.due and to:minimise therisks surrounding:interest payments and-receipts.
Where the magnitude of the risk-is immaterial in,comparison with the company's, overall cash-flows; one option:is
to-do nothing and to accept'the effects of:any movement in interest rates:which occur.
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 031

4.2: Risks from interest rate‘movements
Fixed rate versus ‘floating -A-company can get caught paying higher’ interest rates by. having ‘fixed rather’
rate-debt: than. floating’ rate- debt, or floating rather than fixed ‘rate debt, as. market interest
rates change.
Term of.loan A-company can. be-exposed by having to repay. a loan-earlier than it.can afford
to, resulting :in:a need :to-‘re-borrow, perhaps:at.a higher:rate of.interest..
Term loan.or overdraft A ‘company might prefer to pay. for borrowings:only when it:needs:the. money
facility as with an overdraft ‘facility. Alternatively, a term. loan might be preferred, but
this will cost interest even.if-itis not:needed in full for the-whole. term.
Deposit.at floating rates If interest rates fall then a company would.suffer’a-loss of interest
4.3 Reducing interest rate.risk:
Methods‘ of reducing:interest-rate risk:include:
০ Pooling of:assets and liabilities
০ Forward rate agreements (ERAS)
০ Interest rate futures
o _Interést:raté options (or interést:rate:guarantees)
o — Interest-rate swaps
4.4. Pooling of assets and liabilities:
Some ofthe interest rate risks'to which a firm is exposed may cancel each other out, where there are both assets
and liabilities which both have-exposure to interest: rate:changés. If -intérést:rates rise, Moré-interést:will, be payable
on loans and other liabilities, but-this will be compensated ‘for by,highier interést received on, assets such as money
market deposits.
‘4:5. Forward Rate Agreements (FRAs)
Forward Rate’ Agreements allow: borrowers or-lenders to.fix’their future rate of interest. The FRA-runs 01. 8. given.
period in the:future:ég’ from.month 3.in the future.to.month 9,
For example, a borrower wanting to .hedge ‘their interest ‘rate risk for a period of six:imonths starting in three
months' time would purchase-a '3-9" FRA — this:shows that the FRA starts in three’ months:from.now and-finishes in.
nine months from. now. If the actual interest rate proves ‘to be higher: than ‘the rate agreed, the bank Pays the
company the difference.. If the: actual ‘interest’ rate is lower than ‘the ‘rate agreed, the company’ pays ‘the bank’ the
difference.
The overall effect is to leave the rate paid by the borrower fixed. Thus an. FRA is the equivalent of a: forward
contract.
4.6. Features.of-FRAs:
FRA terminology:
9 5,75-5.70‘means that you.can-fix a borrowing rate-at 5.75% and.a 0০009101806 at 5.7%.
° A '3-6' forward rate agreement is one that starts in ‘three months and lasts for three months ie ends ‘in six
months.
° 2 borrower will. buy an FRA, whilst'an.investor will.sell an.FRA.
Limitations of FRAs
e They.aré usually only-available-on loans.of atleast CU500,000
° They are also likely-to be difficult to obtain for periods of: over one year: This problem can, be overcome by
using-a swap. See section 7 below
e They temove.any upside potential-ie‘they give a. fixed rate-of interest
101] | ‘Financial Management

৬৭389 of FRAS
© For the period of the FRA at: least, they ‘protect the borrower/investor from adverse ‘market interest ‘rate:
movements
e@ চাও can be tailored to the amount: and duration ‘required, whereas some other hedges, ‘ie futures, are
‘standardised.
The interest,rates which, banks will be willing.to:set.for FRAs will reflect their current expectations. of interest:rate
movements.. If it is expected that. interest rates are. going to .rise during’ the term for which the FRA. is being
negotiated, the.bank.is likely to-seek.a higher fixed rate of interest than the current:variable rate.
| bs Worked example: Forward Rate Agreement
। It:is 30. June..Lynn.Ltd will need a CU10 million six month fixed rate loan from 1. October..Lynn. wants to hedge:
- using an FRA. The relevant,FRA rate.on 30 June:is 696.
(a) State‘what:FRA is'required.
(b) Explain the result:of the FRA and the effective loan-rate:if the six month FRA. benchmark rate: has.moved to
(i) 5%
(ii) 9%
(a) The Forward Rate:Agreement to be bought by the borrower is ‘3-9' (or.3v9)
(৮) (i) At.5% because.interest rates-have fallen, Lynn‘Ltd will pay the.bank:
CU
FRA payment:CU10:million x (5% —6%) x.6/12 (50,000)
Payment on underlying loan.5% «x CU10.million x 6/12 (250,000)
Net payment on loan (300,000)
Effective:interest rate on, loan 6%
(ii) .At 9% because‘interest-rates have-risen,:the bank will pay Lynn Ltd
cu
FRA teceipt CU10 million-x (9% — 6%) x 6/12 150,000 ৪
Payment on underlying loan,at:market.rate 9% * CU10 million x 6/12 (450,000) [1
Net payment on loan (300,000) a
Effective:interest:rate on loan 6% v
Be he R
y=a| Section overview
iota o —_Interest:rate futures are:standardised FRAs.
০ Interest‘rate futures are priced at 100 —rate of ‘interest, ক
০ Buying:an.interest rate future equates to investing in debt.
০ _ Selling-interest.rate futures equates to borrowing.
‘5.1, Futures‘contracts:
Interest-raté futures .are similar in-effect:to FRAS, except-that:the terms,.amounts and, periods.are standardised as
for other.contfacts.
As has been explained .in séction,2.3 above, the standardised nature-of futures is a limitation;6n their-use by the
corporate treasurer as a means of hedging, ‘because they cannot. always be, matched. with. specifié interest .rate
exposures. However, their use is. growing. Futures contracts. ate: frequeritly used by banks and, other financial
institutions as well as large (often multinational) companies as a means of hedging ‘their portfolios: such
ifistitution’s are often not.concemed with, achieving-an exact‘match-with their underlying exposure.
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 7405)

:5:2: Entitlement.with‘contracts:
With. interest. rate futures what-we buy is the-entitlement-to interest.receipts and: what we sell is: the: promise to
make interest payments..For. example, a lender, or‘depositor looking to hedge interest rate volatility would buy 3-
month contracts. This: gives the, right to; receive: interest for three ;months' in. pounds. Similarly when. a. borrower
sells a.3-month Taka contract he incurs an obligation.to.make’interest. payments. for three:months.
° Borrowers will wish to hedge against-an-interest'rate tise by selling futures now and buying futures on the:
day ’that the-interest rate is’fixed (ie-when the hedge:is closed out)
oe —_ Lenders (depositors) will wish to hedge: against: the possibility of. falling: interest rates by. buying futures’
now and selling futures on the date that.the-actual lending starts.
5.3, Other factors to consider
০ All of the:interest:rate futures we shall.encounter‘are:for'short-term. interest rates.
Short-term interest rate futures contracts (STIRs) normally represent: interest receivable: or, payable. on,
notional lending. or borrowing: for a three month period beginning on a standard future: date. The contract:
size depends:on the currency:in-which the lending .or borrowing takes place.
For‘example,.3-month sterling interest'rate futures have a standard contract.size:of CUS00,000, The:price-of a.
March. contract reflects the interest rate on. notional lending. or borrowing of CU500,000 for three months,
‘starting“at the-end of March. :Only sterling:interest rate futures will be exdminable.
© As with all:futures, a whole number of contracts: must be dealt with. Note: that the ‘notional period of.
lending or borrowing’starts'when the contract:expires, at.the:end of.March.
© On-LIFEE, futures contracts are available with maturity dates at the.end of March, June, September and
December.
5.4. Pricing futures-contracts
The pricing of an interest-rate futures contract'is determinéd by the interest-rate (r)-and is calculated as (100 —r).
For example,.if interest rates are 8%, a futures contract’ will be‘priced at 92.(100 — 8).-If interest rates are 11%, the:
contract’price: will 06:89 (10011).
Note that the interest rate must be stated as a percentage, not a-decimal. If; over the. next week, the-futures price
increases to 92:20, this implies that interest rates at: the end of March are now expected to be lower at 7.8%:
(because 100:-—.7.8:=-92.20).
i re Worked‘example: Standardised interest rate futures
, If.an‘investor. buys one 3-month sterling CU500,000 March-contract ‘for:93.00 what have.they done?
What would happen. if:interest:rates dropped. by:2%?
The features of-this futures:contract can be broken down as:follows:
3-month March. contract: This-notional investment will pay interest for, three months only, from March
Sterling The Currency in which interest will, be-paid, and,in which-the notional investment
ig being made
CU500,000 The. standard contract size..An ‘investment of Jess than this is not’ possible, and
more 'than:this will be-only possible in.multiples of. CU500,000
Buying_.a contract Interest: rate ‘futures: are notional :debt: securities, eg like: bonds. Buying a future
means investing, and thus:receiving interest
Buying’a future for 93.00 10677060108 future =100—r
Therefore a price.of 93 implies a-rate of 7%
These-are 3-month contracts, ‘so the 7%:refers to’the annual_rate of interest-on a3-
month deposit
606 | ‘Financial Management

(Price = 1100 —r)
93 = 100 —7%
If-interest-rates dropped: by. 2%'to.5% ‘the price would rise.
Price = 100'- 5.= 95
The investor could. then,close:out:his position by.selling a March:contract
Buy-at: 93.00
Sell at 95.00
Gain 2.00%
The interest rate‘used to determine the-price-of a future is an-annual rate; whereas the-contract is for three:months..
In.the example, the:2% refers to the change‘in.the annual rate for 3-month deposits..As.these are 3-month contracts,
the .gain.on one contract is
2% x 3/12 x CU500,000 = CU2,500
Maturity mismatch occurs 1016 actual, period:of lending or borrowing does. not:match the notional period. of the
futures contract (three months). The number, of:futures contracts used. has to'be adjusted accordingly. Since-fixed
interest :is involved; the number of contracts is adjusted in proportion to the time period of the actual ‘loan. or
deposit compared. with ‘three months. For example, if the period of borrowing is six months the number of
contracts is doubled. This, leads to the following formula-
Number of futures contracts = Amount. of actualloan or depost ১৭907 00097.
Futurescontract size 3months.
Remember that it is the length of the- loan. that determines how. many futures: contracts are needed. The period
between today's date:and the start of the Joan.is not relevant; we are: hedging over the. life ofthe loan.
Ss | Interactive question:2: Maturity mismatch: (Difficulty, level: Intérniediate]}
দু | 011 5 June, a corporate:treasurer decides to hedge a 9001ল010.1081 of CU17 million; which will be required for. two: ৪
‘ months from 4 October to 3 December. Three-month sterling:futures, December ‘contract, are.trading: at:98.15. The Fa
contract'size is CUS00,000. How. many contracts are.required? A
See. Answer at the end of this chapter. P
a v
. ie Worked example: Interest rate futures, R
The following‘futures: price movements were:obsérved duting a week, in October.
তত, মরা Price-at:start of |
Contract week: Price.at end of week
December sterling STIR 90.40. 91.02:
Hawthorn. Ltd.had previously sold.ten, December short,sterling-contracts.(standard contract.size CU500,000). 1
Requirement
Calculate the: profit or loss to the company .for.the week:on the sterling futures contracts.
Increase in price (9.1.02 — 90:40:=:0:62) 0.62%
Increase in value ০016 contract (0.62% x.3/12: x.CU500,000) = CU775:
The company‘is a-seller'of ten contracts and ‘would lose:(€U775 * 10 contracts). (CU7,750)
ie buying at-a higher price than selling:
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 407)

Interactive question 3: Interest rate hedge using futures;
. eB ‘ (Difficulty. level: Intermediate]
Le It is 1 January, and a company has identified that, it, will need to borrow: 0010 million on 31“ ‘March. for six.
“~~ months.
The spot rate on 1 January is 8% and March 3 month. interest rate. futures with, a contract size-of CU500,000 are.
trading-at.91.-
Demonstrate:how futures:can be‘used to hedge‘against.interest:rate rises. Assume that at 3." March.the spot-rate ০01
interest is: 1.1% and the March: interest:rate futures price has fallen to:89.
(a) Setup the:hedge:
(0) Outcome.in:futures:market
(০) Outcome:in spot.market
See Answer at the end of'this chapter.
5:6 Hedging 'lending
In the language of interest rate futures, lending equals buying. ‘The treasurer hedges against the possibility of.
falling interest rates: by buying, futures now. and selling: futures on. the date that the ‘actual lending starts. The
calculation proceeds in a:similar'‘way. to the example above.,
(S|: Interactive question’4: Hedging by a lender’ [Difficulty lével: Intermeédiate]|
ee A US company will have a:surplus of:CU2.million for three:months starting:in. August. The’cash:will be placed on.
" fixed: interest.deposit,:for which the:current rate of interest is 5%: pa. How can.the deposit:income-be hedged using
futures contracts? The September 3-month :sterling. futures contract:is ‘currently trading at:94.00. It has a standard
contract'size.of CU500,000.
See Answer at the end-of this chapter.
6 Interest rate:options:
Section overview
e Interest rate options allow an organisation to limit-its exposure to. adverse interest rate movements, while:
allowing it to takeadvantage of favourable:interest.rate movements.
০. Borrowers can set a:maximum on the interest-they have to-pay by buying-put options.
e _ Lenders can set a.:minimum on the‘interest they receive by buying call‘options.
608 | ‘Financial Management

‘6.1, Interest rate options (guarantees)'
An interest: rate option grants the buyer.of the option the right; but not the obligation, to deal at an agreed.
interest ‘ate: (strike 1806) at a future maturity date. On the date of. expiry of the. option, the buyer must decide
whether or:not.to-exercise the right.
Clearly, a buyer’of an option'to borrow will not wish.to exercise it if the:market:interest:rate.is now below that
specified.in the option agreement: Conversely, an option.to.lend will not be worth.exercising if market rates.have.
risen above:the:rate:specified:in‘the option by the time the:option has expired..
An.interest:rate‘guarantee (IRG) refers to‘an.interest rate’ option‘ which hedges the-interest rate’ for a single period
of up'to one year,
Tailor-made, ‘over-the-counter interest rate options can. be purchased from major banks, with spécific values,
periods of maturity, denominated currencies and rates of agreed interest. The cost. of the option is the ‘premium,
Interest.raté options offer-more flexibility than RAS, although they are more expensive.
Exchange-traded interest rate options are available as options on interest rate futures, which give the holder the
right to buy (call-option) or sell (put option) one futures contract on-or before the expiry of. the option at a specified
price.. The: best way to understand the pricing. of interest ‘rate-options is to look at a‘schedule of prices,
. Futures options CU500;000
Strike price Calls Puts
Nov Dee Jan Nov Dec Jan
95.00 0:87 1.27 1.34 0:29: 0.69 1.06
95:50: 0.58 0.99 1.10 0:50 0.91 1:32
96.00 0:36, 0.76: 0.88 0.77 1.18 1.60
Requirement. ডে
(a) ‘Explain the:componentsiof the table A
(b) Tilustrate how a borrower, would use the:table.to'hedge:against-an interest:rate rise. PP
v

Solution: R
(a) The components.of'the table are as.follows:

(i) The contract size is‘CU500,000.

(ii). The strike price:is the price'that will be paid forthe futures:contract (if the option is exercised),

Gii) A price of 96.00 represents an interest rate of 100.-96-=4% p.a .

(iv) The numbers:under each,month represent:the premium (in % terms) that. must be paid-for.the options.

For example, the cost of'a November put‘option. with ‘an exercise price of 95:50:is

0.5%. x CU500,000 x 3/12 = CU625

As with interest rate ‘futures, the rates are expressed as annual, interest rates, but as these. are 3-month

contracts, the rates.have to be adjusted to-reflect-this.
(৮) Hedging:a rate:increase

Consider‘a borrower who ts concerned that:interest:rates may rise. A.rise-in:interest!rates from say 4% to 6%

would cause interest rate.futures:to.fall in‘ price: from,96 to 94.

‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 409)

The borrower would ‘therefore want-to have the right 0 sell a future at 96 (which equates to borrowing. at
4%), In the event that:interestitates increased, the-option Would be ০২১০17০1560 ie 0016 sold .for'96.and then the
futtire would be closed: out-at the:prevailing price:of 94..
If interest: rates fall to say 3% futures price would rise. to 97 and so ‘the option to sell at 96 would be
abandoned.
Rate increase: to 6% Rate-fall to. 3%

Option to sell a future 96 96
Prevailing price of. future: (94) (97)
Effect exercise‘and gain 2% abandon
Thus the: option will.remove 016 downside to a:borrower if interest rates:rise, but leave the upside if interest
rates fall.

6.3. Using traded-interest rate‘options for/hedging:

To use traded ‘interest rate options‘for.hedging, note the following:specific points:

(a) If a company needs to hedge borrowing at some future date, it should purchase put options. Instead. of
selling futures ‘now and buying futures: later, it purchases an option to: sell futures and only exercises. the
option if-interest-rates have risen causing:a fall.in the price.of the futures contract. This is known.as a.cap.

(b) Similarly, if-a company needs to lend money, it should purchase call options (an.option.to- buy futures).

(চন) Worked’example: Traded options,
Panda: Ltd wishes to borrow CU4 million fixed tate in June. for ‘nine: months and. wishes to protect itself against:
a rates-rising above 6.75%. 105 1.1 May.and the:spot rate:is currently 6%. The data:i8 as follows:

SHORT STERLING OPTIONS (STIR)

CU500,000

Strike price ‘Calls Puts

June Sept Dec June Sept Dec

93.25 0.16 0.19 0:21 0.14 0.92 1.62

93:50 0:05: 0.06 0.07 0.28 1.15 1.85

93.75 0:01. 0.02 0.03 0.49 1,39 2.10

Panda negotiates the loan with the bank’on 12 June (when the CU4m loan rate is fixed forthe full-nine months)

and closes outthe:hedge,

What will be the-outcome: of the hedge andthe effective loan rate if prices on, 12,June aré as;follows:

Closing prices

Case] Case.2

Spot price TAQ%. 5.1%

Futures price 92.311 94:75

The followirigimethod should be uséd..

Step 1

410 | ‘Financial. Management

Setup
(a) Which contract? June
(b) Whatitype? AS paying: interest.néed a put option (the-right-to sella future)
(c) ‘Strike price 93.25 (100-—.6.75) Cap needed at.6.75%
(d) How'many?. CU4m/CU0.Sm * 9/3 =:24.contracts
(e) Premium At.93:25:(6.75%) June.Puts = 0.14%
Contracts;x premium:x contract:size:x:contract duration. =24 «0.14% x‘CU500,000 x, 3/1.2:= 004,200
Note: As these: are 3-month. contracts, the premium.— which is quoted as.an annual:rate:—. needs to be adjusted to’
reflect this.
Step 2
Closing prices
Case 1. Case:2
Spot price TAQ. 5.1.%
Futures price: 92.3.1 94.75
Step 3
Outcome
Case | Case 2
(a) Options market outcome:
Strike. price-right to sell,(Put) ‘at. 93.25 93.25
Closing price buy.at 92:31 94,75
Exercise? Yes No
If.exercised, gain on future 0.94% -
QOutcome:of options position 0.94% x-CU500,000 x 3/12 x 24 -
= CU28,200
(b) —_ Net:position cu CU
Borrow spot-CU4m 9/12, x'7.4% or'5.1% 222,000 153,000
Option. (28;200) -
Option. premium 4;200 4,200
Net-outcome 198,000 157,200 রি
198,000 12 ১ 157,200 12 ,
ive interest:r: এ = 6.6% = > 2 = 524% A
(c) Effective interest-rate 4,000,000. 9 ০৮4 4,000,000 9 0 P
v
7 Interest rate'swaps ;
=> . A
pee Section.overview মে
LES
° Interest rate swaps are where ‘two parties. agree to exchange interest rate: payments.
০ Interest ‘rate ‘swaps can act’as 3.1া621715 of switching from paying one type:of interest to another; raising’ less’
expensive loans and.securing better-deposit rates. —
(A Definition
sma Interest-rate‘swap: is:an-‘agreement; whereby ‘the parties to.the:agreement:exchange«interest rate commitments.
7.1, Swap procedures:
Interest rate swaps involve two. parties agreeing to exchange interest payments with each: other over an. agreed
period. In practice, the major:players in the swaps market are banks although many other-types of institution can
become involved,-for.example ‘national and local governments. and international, institutions.
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | on

In, the simplest form of interest rate swap, party A agrées to pay the interest on party B's loan, while party B
reciprocates. by paying thé interest.on A's Joan. If the swap is. to make sense,. the two parties must swap interest
which has:different characteristics.
Assuming: that:the:interest:swapped is.in the:same currency, the most common motivation for the swap is to switch
from paying floating. rate:interest:to-fixed interest or. vice versa. This. typeof swap:is known as:a ‘plain vanilla‘ or
generic swap.
The variable rate included, in 4.swap is LIBOR — the London InterBank Offered Rate: This benchmark rate of
interest is'the rate-paid.between banks.
Like-all financial instruments, swaps can be used for'speculation as*well as: hedging.
7.2 Interest'rate Swaps.
‘7.21, ‘Advantages:
© ‘They erable a switch from. floating rate ‘to fixed rate interest, or vice versa, for’ise as a hedge against:
interest rate:risk’.
০ The arrangement:costs are often significantly less than terminating:an existing loan and taking out a new
one.
৩ They-can be used-to:make interest rate savings, either. out of the:counterparty or out of the loan.markets, by’
using the:principle-of comparative advantage:
e They are available for longer periods: than the short-term.methods of hedging risk (FRAs; futures, options)
that we have:considered in. this:chapter..
৩. They are flexible since they-can-be-arranged for tailor‘made’'amounts'and periods, and.are‘reversible..
[দল] ‘Worked'example: Interest'rate swaps
Company A has borrowed CU10 million. at a-fixed interest rate of 9% per annum. Company B has ‘also borrowed
“ €U10 million but paysinterest‘at LIBOR.+ 19%. LIBOR is currently 8%:per‘annum.
The directors of company A ‘feel. that interest rates are going to fall and would prefer to be: paying floating rate
interest. ‘The. best floating rate A-could obtain without a swap:is LIBOR. + 2%.. The feeling’ at company ’B is that
interest rate risk could be removed if they were. paying fixed ‘interest-and that this would facilitate: cash planning.
The best fixed:rate that B-could obtain without a. swap‘is 10%.
The two:companies agree to swap‘interest payments.
A pays LIBOR.+ 1% to.B
B pays 9% to A
No loan principals are swapped and both parties,retain the obligation'to,repay their original loans.
A summary of the-arrangements can be shown.as:follows.
Company A Company'B-
Interest'paid on original loan (9%) (LIBOR:+ 1%)
A pays to.B (LIBOR.+ 1%) > ‘LIBOR + 1%
B pays to A 9% বা (9%)
Net payment after-swap (LIBOR + 1:%) (9%)
Both parties have achieved their. objective of switching the nature of. their interest: payments. Comparing, the rate
paid with the swap-to the rate without, it can be seen that the swap has benefited both parties eg company. B jis
paying 9%:fixed instead of 10% fixed. Whether fixed is a.good.idea however‘depends.on what,LIBOR does.
If LIBOR stays ‘at 8%, neither party: gains-or loses. However, if LIBOR-falls; A gains at the expense of B and the
reverse happens if. LIBOR rises.
Summary] Company A Company 1B
Before swap 9% fixed LIBOR + 1% floating’ =8 +1 = 9%
After swap LIBOR + 1% = 9%floating, 9% fixed
4121 | ‘Financial Management

Without:swap ‘LIBOR +.2% = 10% floating 10%-fixed
‘7.2.2, How do swaps work?’
The gain arises-due to the‘principle:of comparative:advantage. This allows:two companies to work:together, to their’
mutual benefit.
Worked ‘example:-How interest-rate swaps work?
b Goodcredit Ltd has. been. given a high credit rating. It can borrow at: a:fixed rate of 11%, or at a variable interest
rate equal. to .LIBOR, which also happens to: be 11% at the moment. It, would like to: borrow at a variable rate.
Secondtier. Ltd is:a.company with a lower credit rating, which can borrow at a fixed rate of, 12.5% or-at:a variable
rate of LIBOR. plus‘0:5%..It would like to borrow at.a fixed rate.
A swap allows: both ‘parties to end. up paying .interest at a lower rate via a swap than is obtainable:from a bank.
Where. does: this gain come ‘from? To answer this. question, set out a, table of the: rates: at which both companies
could. borrow from the bank,
Sccond icra Diftcrenccy
Can.borrow at:fixed rate 11% 12:5% 1.5%
Can borrow at:floating rate LIBOR ‘LIBOR.+:0:5% 05%
Difference:between differences 1.0%
Goodcredit has a better credit rating than Secondtier in, both types of loan market; but its advantage. is.
comparatively higher in the.fixed interest market. The 1% differential, between Goodcredit's advantage in the’two.
types of. loan may represent a market imperfection or there may be a good reason for. it. ‘Whatever ‘the reason, it
represents a potential gain, which can be made-out ০68 swap arrangement.
Secondtier ‘Summtotal]
Company wants Variable Fixed ৪
Would pay (no swap) (LIBOR) (12.5%), (LIBOR + 12.5%) 0
Could pay. (11%): (LIBOR +.0.5%) (LIBOR.+ 11.5%) a
Potential gain 1% T
B
Assume that. the: potential gain of. 1% ‘is split equally. between. Goodcredit. and Secondtier, 0.5% each, Then R
Goodcredit will be targeting:a floating rate loan of LIBOR less 0.5% (0.5% less than that at which.it can borrow.
from ‘the bank). Similarly, Secondtier will be targeting a fixed interest loan of 12.5% -"0:5% = 12%. These: are: |
precisely the rates which are-obtained by the swap arrangement illustrated below.
Secondticr Sum toe
Split:evenly, 0.5%: 0.5% 1% .
Expected:outcome (LIBOR —.0:5%) (12%) (LIBOR.+ 11.5%)
The rate that each company expects to pay after the swap:is thus:0.5% less'than-it would pay'without a.swap.
eg Goodcredit would pay-LIBOR, so‘will pay LIBOR — 0.5%
Secondtier would pay 12.5% ‘fixed so'will:pay 12% fixed,
Sua toms Secondticiy Sumytotal
Could pay (11%) (LIBOR + 0.5%) (LIBOR + 11.5%)
Swap floating (LIBOR.+.0.5%) LIBOR + 0.5%
Swap fixed 12% (12%)
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 4133)

Net ‘paid (LIBOR.— 0.5%) (12%) (LIBOR + 1:1.5%)
Would pay (LIBOR) (12.5%): (LIBOR.+ 12.5%)
Gain 0:5% 0.5% 1%
To-construct:a simple swap:
Let Goodcredit:pay all of:Secondtier's.interest
ie LIBOR.+ 0.5% paid to Secondtier, as shown above
Secondtier must then reciprocate by paying fixed interest to:Goodcredit. However, Secondtier will-only pay’ 12%
as-calcillated arid.shown/above,.in order:to be.0.5% better off:under the swap.
The overall effect of this is to leave each party 0.5% ‘better'off.,
The results of-:the;swap are that Goodcredit ends up.paying variable-rate interest, but.at a lower'cost than it could
8০0 from a‘bank, and Sécondtier ends up paying fixed rate interest, also at a lower, cost thin it could get from
investors or 4 bank,
Note that-for the swap to give a gain to both parties;
(a) Each company must borrow in.the loan market in which it.has comparative:advantage. Goodcredit has the.
greatest advantage ‘when it borrows fixed interest. Secondtier ‘has, the least. disadvantage. when it borrows
floating 1802.
(b) The parties must, actually: want. interest of the opposite type to that in which ‘they have: comparative:
advantage. Goodcredit, wants floating.and Secondtier wants fixed.
Once the. target interest rate for each company has been established, there is an infinite number of swap
arrangements which, will produce-the same net:result. The example.illustrated above is:only one of them.
| HB) | Interactive question 5: 00105010008 swap, (Difficulty level: Intermediate]
. ee We:illustrated aboye one way in which the’ swap could work, (Swap fixed 12%, ‘swap floating (LIBOR + 0:5%).
~ Siggest an alternative arrangement.for the swap by entering swap:interest. payments into this pro-forina to move
from the original interest paid to the desired result.
Goodcredit Secondtier
Could pay (11%) (LIBOR + 0,5%)
Swap floating
Swap fixed
Net‘interest cost (LIBOR.— 0.5%) (12%).
See.Answer at the end-of this chapter.
HB) |; Interactive question 6: Practise.creating a swap: (Difficulty level: Intermediate]
ee | A Ltd wishes. to borrow fixed but, becatse:of its credit rating, the best.rate it.can obtain. is. 11% pa. It.can borrow’
' -yariable: at LIBOR +2%. B Ltd cam borrow fixed at 9% or variable at LIBOR +1%. B Ltd is happy’ to borrow
variable.
Assume both: wish to borrow.CU10m..
Requirement.
Illustrate how.a. swap would benefit-both parties, assuming-the following:
J. .A.Ltd. borrows GU,10m:variable at LIBOR-+2%
2 BLtd borrows:CU10m fixed at:9%
See Answer at the end-of this chapter.
HY | ‘Financial Management

7:3. Risks‘of.swaps:
Riis asodkicd with suays
Counterparty risk Risk:that counterparty 00 swap will, default before completion; of agreement. This:risk:is
lessened by. using a‘reputable intermediary

Position or:market Risk*of unfavourable market.movements of interest or exchange rates: after the.company

risk. enters a.swap.

Transparency risk: Risk-that swap:activity may lead to accounts of party involved being misleading
iC

A
ঢল
v
B
R

‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | GS

| ‘i | /. | ১ ্য ১
6 | eh. 5 কী
3 শি লি দে ABE wea Bec. :
‘ 6 & BO) AE | SV DOSY T° iS 1০3৩ 3 ‘ EY A 31 গ্রে
০ B be grees কে ae
oa || Bees] | ৬০1) es ৪৭
x শে ২3. i) নিন রি রী
কিনল BE iS ঢা Ge রি ৷ টু
dey রিল ) তমা
০৮০51 নন AS), ঢুকি
রং Beet ec) f i \ zs Oe ১ ই০।
‘Ss =i BUS a ccd \@ons 200
RES Gee em) লে ~~: ye a
aos itt শিউা a |
Bees!) | wae) | Be Oe
৫3 OO & P i ok TS TY Be On m @
A & 1d % 0 fs ১০৯৭ OO; চে লো
1.0 (| ( :[) , :
416} | ‘Financial Management

Answer the following: questions.
1. A company‘wants to:secure/ minimum earnings on deposits:of CU10 million it will be making in four months’
time. (mid-December) for an investment period of ‘three months: (to mid-March). Which of’ the following,
would be suitable-methods:of.hedging the exposure toa ‘fall:in:interest:rates over the.-next four:months?
A. Selling September short’sterling:futures
০. Buying.a cail option on,December sterling futures
C ‘Buying:a-put:option on:September sterling futures
D_ Buying December;short sterling futures
2 The treasurer of a US-based multinational expects, to deposit about CU30: million in cash in May for a
number-:of months, and-is worried that short-term: interest:rates on sterling will soon.fall: It is.now December.
Which:of the following would be an appropriate hedging transaction with futures?
A _ Sell.June sterling futures
B Sell’March sterling futures
C ‘Buy March. sterling futures
D Buy June sterling futures
3 A bank has quoted the’following rates'for, dealing-in FRAS..
Bid]
3'v6 4/59 4.56
It:is 24th March and. your, company wants-to fix an interest rate. for, borrowing CU1 million for three months
from .24th June. What is the payment to be made on the FRA if the company entered a 3 v 6 FRA with a,
bank, assuming that interest-rates rise:to. 4.65% from their current level of'4.5%?
4 An investor holds. put options giving: him the right to sell shares in a company. for ‘CU2 each. ‘Which of the:
following graphs correctly shows how’ the value of the put options. at expiry date will. depend on ‘the share
price?
Value of ‘Value of
option - a ‘option, ;
Graph. : Graph B: ৪
রগ f
cu / cu P
/ B
‘0 cu Share price 0. ‘cU Share price;
Value-of ‘Value of
option option —
. ‘Graph. Cc a ‘Graph'D
0 Share price 0 cu Share price;
A. -Graph.A
B Graph.B
C ঢায
D GraphD
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 4197)

5 Mover Investments Ltd wants to secure minimum earnings: on deposits of 0015 million it will be making in
four months’ timé (mid-December) for an investment period of three months (to mid-March), Which of the
following would be suitable methods of hedging the exposure to a fall in interest ‘rates over the next.four
months?

A, Buying:December short sterling futures
৪. Buying.a3-v'7 FRA
Cc Séllin g December short;sterling futures
0 ও 18347 মাক,
E. 0৮১11182081] option on September short:sterling: futures
6 Acompany needs to borrow CU50m-for.one year:starting.in three months’ time-at LIBOR.
The company's:bank:makes the:following offers.
© .A"3-15"FRA-at5% interest (i¢‘an.FRA Starting in.three-months and lasting twelve months).
° An;option.at:5.% interest for a premium.of 1% pa.
Requirement
Assuming interest rates: move to-either ‘3%, 4%, 5% or 6%, illustrate the effective: rate’ paid by the company
assuming it.
(a) Has:no‘hedge
(b). “Uses:an.FRA
(c) Uses an option

7 — High, Risk\[td and Sound Co Ltd ‘both wish to bortow CUL0m indefinitely. They. are considering: entering
into ‘a Swap arrangement under’ which any gains would be shared equally’ between the two companies.
Requirement.

Show: the effect of'a swap arrangement between, the:two companies if’
1 High Risk Ltd borrows:CU10m variable at LIBOR. It prefers fixed, which it can raise at.9%
2 Sound_Co Ltd.borrows GU10m:fixed at 8%. It prefers variable, which it can raise-at:LIBOR +1%

8 It: is.Jate ‘March and a ‘corporate: treasurer.has: identified the need’ to borrow ‘CU10 million.for. a three month.
period commencing at: the end of June: ‘Current (ie- spot) interest .rates are 6% per. annum. Three ‘month
sterling interest rate:futures for June are trading:at:93.;Eutures contracts size is. CU500,000.

Explain how futures will provide ‘a hedge. Assume the. spot.rate:moves to.6%, 7% and 8% to help :illustrate
your ‘answer.

9 -An investor holds:a ‘portfolio of FTSE 100 shares with a value of CU24 million at.the end of March. He is
worried that by the end of June, ‘when.he plans to sell his shares to raise cash, share"prices will have fallen.
He is considering FTSE 100:index:futures to:hedge against this:risk of. capital loss.

The current'value of the FTSE 100.index:is 6,000.

The index: value.for:contracts to be completed at the end of June.is 5;900 and the price-of futures.is CU10 per
full index: point.

Mlustrate .how a hedge helps protect against a drop: in. equity values. Assume’ that. at the .end of June the:
portfolio value has:dropped to CU23.58: million, and:the June future is-quoted at’5,795.

10. Itis:3.. December. Cleff Ltd needs to borrow CU6 million in three-months' time for“a period of. ix months.
For the type of. loan ‘finance which ‘Cleff would. use, the rate of interest: is currently 13% per ‘year and. the
corporate treasurer:is unwilling-to pay a higher ‘rate,

The treasurer-is concerned about possible ‘future ‘fluctuations in interést-ratés, and is considering the‘following
possibilities:
(a) “Forward rate.agreements (FRAS)
(8) Interest:rate:futures
(০) Interest.rate guarantees or short-term interest-rate caps
AB | ‘Financial Management

Requirement.

Explain briefly how each.of these three alternatives might be useful.to Cleff. Ltd.

11 The corporate treasurer:of Cleff.decides.on 3.1 December to hedge;the interest-rate risk on the.

CU6 million 00 be. borrowed in three: months" time for six ‘months by using interest raté futures, Her:

expectation is that’interest:rates will.increase from 13% by 2% over the:next three:months:

The current:price:of March sterling 3-months futures is 87.25. The standard contract.size is CU500,000.

(a) Set out calculations of the effect-of using the futures :marketito hedge against:movements.in the interest
rate:

(i) If interest rates‘increase from 13% by 2% and the futures:market price. moves by 2%
(ii) If interest rates increase from 13% by 2% and the-futures. market: price: moves by 1.75%
(iii) Tf interest rates fall from 13% by’ 1.5% and the futures:market price'moves by 1,25%
The-time-value of.money; taxation and margin.requirements.can.be ignored.

(0) Calculate, for the ‘situations above, whether the total cost of the loan after. hedging would have been
lower with the futurés hedge chosen by the treasurer or-with, an interest-rate. guarantee-which she could.
have purchased at 13% fora: premium of 0.25% ৩6016 size of the-loan to be guaranteed.

Again, the.time.value of:money,,taxation' and margin requirements are‘to be'ignored.
12. (3 It:is September,.20X9. Rutini‘s: corporate treasurer has identified.the need.to:invest CU20m sterling for a
three-month period:commencing at the end of December. Current-interest rates:are 3% per annum.
Thrée-month: December sterling: interest rate futures are ‘trading at: 3.375%. Three-month put options
with an-exercise price of 3.375% cost.CU500 per contract;:calls of a.similar-denomination cost CU350.
per contract. The contract:size:is CU500,000.
Demonstrate the results of. covering 'the:treasurer's exposure using
(i) Futures, and,
(ii) Options
ডে
under the following: December'spot interest.rates: f
A
(1) 3.25% P
(2) 3.375% v
. নর
(3) 3.5% R
Tgnore:basis:risk:at end‘of December for the purposes of this illustration. (4 marks)

(b) It is September. 20X0. The corporate treasurer of another company -has identified. the. need. to borrow |
CU20m of sterling for three months, commencing.end of.December. The same:data apply as‘for.Rutini's:
treasurer.in (a).

‘Demonstrate the results of covering thetreasurer's exposure using
(i) Futures, and

(01) Options

under the-following December’ spot:interest rates:

(1) 3.25%

(2) 3.375%

(3) 3.5% (4 marks)

(০) Rutini's treasurer ‘holds 2,000.X,Ltd shares, current:market price CU13.00 per share..He intends to sell,
them:in'three months’ time:but is*worried about'their pricé volatility. The-following thrée-month:options
are-available.

‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 41.9)

Bhoncise pies CU PremiumypergsharcyeU)
12:00 0.50
13.00 ‘1.00
14.00 1,50
Calculate: the treasurer's net’receipt:in three months' time if-he takes no. hedging action or if he employs
each.of the options.
Tabulate your results for the following three.month prices:
CU10. CUIT CUI2 CU13. CU14 ‘CUTS
Comment on. which‘policy appears ‘most.suitable. (4 marks)
(0) One of Rutini's directors: believes. that X ‘Ltd's. share price will 66 exceptionally volatile over-the next.
three-months.. He buys
1,000 X Ltd call options exercise:pricé:CU13.00, premium 50p per share
1,000 X'Ltd put options exercise price CU13.00, premium ,SOp per share
Calculate:his profitunder the:following three-month share prices:
গো] CU12 CU13 CUl4 CUIS
Comment on, your.result. (4 marks)
(16 marks)
13 Swapit-Ltd-has a high credit'rating, .It can borrow. fixed at :10%/or variable at LIBOR + 0.3%. It would like to
borrow variable.
Badcred Ltd has a lower credit.rating. It can. borrow. fixed. at. 1.-% or variable.at. LIBOR +:0.5%. It would.like
to borrow fixed.
Requirement.
Show. how’.a swap. arrangement ‘would benefit. both. parties 10 Swapit Ltd. were to: borrow fixed, paying’
Badcred Ltd LIBOR, and. Badcred Ltd were.to borrow variable,-paying 10.1% fixed to. Swapit. Ltd. (3 marks)
14: Swapper Ltd.has a fixed-rate loan of CU10,000,000 at 149, which must. be redeemed one-year:hence. The
company‘is considering an interestsrate-swap with Mover Ltd, which has a-floating rate loan of the same size
‘at LIBOR. plus 1%, If the swap goes ahead, Mover Ltd ‘will pay Swapper.Ltd 13% ‘and Swapper Ltd will pay
Mover Ltd LIBOR. plus 14%. Swapper Ltd could issue floating rate debt at LIBOR plus 2% and.Movyer Ltd.
could issue fixed rate. debt at?13%2%,
There would be legal fees: of CU10,000. foreach company if the swap is. made,
Requirement.
(a) Would the-swap benefit Swapper Ltd:
(1) if, LIBOR:is 12% for the next-year:
(2) if EIBOR.is 12%-for-the next six:months, and 10% thereafter?
(b) ‘Could. an alteration ‘in, the terms: of-the swap. make it beneficial to both companies? Any benefit would
be shared equally between them. (10 marks)
Now. go: back; to the Learning’ Objectives ‘in; the Introduction. ‘If you are. satisfied, you. have. achieved. these
Objectives, please:tick them off.
420 | ‘Financial. Management

ATSwers to lhnterneciive qnesiions
Answer to Interactive question’l
cu
“I Impact of- holding a share
0.4, SY
(0.1) A. 70 2.00 2:50 share.price-cu
cu Impact: of holding’a:put' option.
0.5!
0.4
ঠ
0.2. এ,
ডা A
P
0.1 Ne T
. E}
(0:1) 170 ১ 00 রা 2:50 share price cv
cu Impact :of'holding.a share and a‘put option ————
4 VS
aN raw,
“ON.
4 ১
(০) AD 2.00: 250. share'price cu
“ Impact. Impact ৷ ৷
of share. of/put.option
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 121

cU CU CU
Share’ price (1.70) (2:00) (2.50)
Sell at exercige:price. 2.00° 2.00 2.00
Gain if'exercise 0.30 0. 0
Abandon
Less: premium (0.10) (0.10): (0.10)
0.20 (0.10) (0.10)
Answer to Interactive question 2
_ £17 ncvion X 2 months
Number: of futures contracts_| = 22
£0.5:cullion x 3.months
= 22.67 contracts, rounded to 23.
‘Answer. to Interactive question 3
The following:steps should be taken.
(a) Setup
(0) What:contract: 3-month contract
(ii), What-type? sell (as.rates expected to.rise)
ce ; Exposure Loan period 10m
Gi) How many'contracts?: _ ০5০ x __ van pen — = 410m _ '* 6 24000110303
Contract size Length cfcontract O5m 3
(b) Futures outcome
Atopening’ratez 91. sell
At closing rate: 89. buy
‘Gain: 2%
Futures,outcome: 2% x CU0-5m x 3/12 x 40.contracts ='CU100,000
(c) Net outcome
CU
Payment in spot market CUIOm ¥ 11% x 6/12 (550,000)
Receipt in futures market 100,000
‘Net payments (450,000)
Spot rate at I“ January =18%
31, March = 11%
Increase in interést on spot:market; = 3%
Increase in cost = 3% x CU10m ম০12 25 CU150,000
ain on. future 100,000 ay
Hedge-efficiency: __Gainon future _ = 100,000, x 100% = 67%
’ Losson:spot market 150,000
‘Answer to Interactive question 4
The target: interest to: be earned is CU2 million x 5% x ১৭১ = CU25,000. To ‘hedge lending, buy four
3-month sterling.September, futures:contracts:now and sell four‘contracts.in August.
Suppose ‘that: by. August, interest’rates have: fallen. by 1%. The CU2 million is deposited at 4% for three months,
yielding CU20;000, a. shortfall. on. target. of CU5,000: 11 the: futures market has also moved by 1%, the contract,
ptice-will have risen to 95.00, giving a.gain of 1%. The gain’ from selling four, contracts at the higher price is. 1% ১
3/12 2 CU0.5m-x 4 contracts = CU5,000: ‘This:compensates for the shortfall in.actual, interest.
৫ | ‘Financial Management

‘Answer to Interactive question’5

Enter any figure:into. any. slot of the pro-forma.and 016 other figures must automatically’ balance-out. Here:is one:of

many possible solutions.

Goodcredit Secondtier

Could pay’ (1192) (LIBOR.+ 0.5%)

Swap floating (LIBOR —-0.5%). LIBOR —0.5%

Swap fixed 11% (11%)

‘Net interest cost (LIBOR —.0.5%) (12%)

‘Answer, to Interactive question 6

A pays 2% more:for fixed debt, but only 1% more’ for'variable debt. There'is therefore a 1%. possible gain from.a

swap, that-we will split.evenly between the two participants:

A.Ltd B-Ltd

‘Borrow (LIBOR.+:2%) (9%)

Swap ‘floating LIBOR + 2% (LIBOR.+'%2%)

‘Swap fixed (9%) 9%

Net interest:cost (102%) (LIBOR + 2%)
ডে
ঢা)
A
P
v
B
R

‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 1423)

1 ৪ Buying acall option on December'sterling- futures’
D Buying December:short sterling futures
The exposure to a. fall in short-term interest: rates, can be: obtained by selling a 4v 7 FRA, buying
December, futures or buying:a call option,on:Décember futures. Dealing:in,September. futures or options
doés:hot'provide.sufficient:Cover-against the interest rate exposure.
2 D_ Buy June sterling futures.
An exposure to: a.decrease in.short-term interest rates'can be hedged by purchasing short-term. interest:
rate futures. June futures are ‘more appropriate: than March, futures because with March futures, there
will_be.an exposure.to‘a fall.in the interest rate:after the contract.expires in March and before-the deposit:
of cash,is made.in.May. The:company will close:its position in May by selling:sterling futures:
3 A company is borrowing therefore it will buy an FRA: which.locks it‘into:a fixed borrowing rate. The spread
offered by the.bank.will allow the bank.to:-makeia profit, thus:
e 15209910015 will recéive the lower rate: 456%
৩ Borrowers: will pay the higher rate: 4:59%
If.interest-rates in June-rise to 4.65% the:bank will reimburse the:company:
(4.65% — 4.59%) x 3/12:x CU] million.= CUISO
4 ৪ GraphB
Putcoptions give the right to sell shares at‘a‘fixed price,,here CU2 per’share. The.option has value for the.
‘investor. at the. expiry-date provided thatthe actual ‘market value is less' than the exercise.price of. CU2.
per share’ giving:the:investor the ability to ‘profit’ by‘exercising the‘option. This:is shown by Graph B.
Graph A. shows how the. value at expiry’ date: of.a call option. at CU2 per Share Varies: with the ‘actual.
‘share price. Graph. D. shows: the comibined ‘value-of the-option’plus the share: the put option safeguards
the ‘investor against a fall ‘in price of ‘the shares below CU2, which. illustrates: the adyantage of put
options to an investor’seeking to hedge against share’ price falls.
For put-options aind-call optioris before their expiry date, the lines in,Graph B and Graph A’ respectively
show the:minimum values .at‘which the options will’ be‘tradéd.,
5 D _ Selling:a 4:v7 FRA and,
A Buying December,short sterling futures.
The: exposure: to a fall in short-term interest: rates can’ be: obtained. by selling. 3 4 v 7 FRA,, buying’
December futures or buying’a call:option,on.December futures. Dealing‘in:September futures or options
‘does:not provide:-sufficient:cover, against the-interest rate.exposure.

LIBOR in ‘three:months. 6% 5% 4% 3%
%: % % %
(a) No‘hedge—pay’the rate. of interest 6 5: 4 3
(b) FRA
Pay at the rate:of interest 6. 5 4 3
(Paid by)/Paid to bank (LIBOR-v 5%) (1) (0) A. 2
৫: | ‘Financial Management

Effective:rate: 5. 5. 5 5
(©) Option
Exercise? Yes No ‘No No
Rate. 5 5 4 3
Premium 1 1 | |
Effective tate: 6 6 5 4
The no. hedge position has the’ greatest:risk:as' shown by:a much wider spread.of outcomes. The! FRA. gives:a
fixed rate, and the option. provides a.cap. ‘The. effective: cost. of the option is increased significantly. by: the
premium,

High. Risk Sound Co.
Assume wants fixed. Assume’ wants variable: Combined
9% fixed LIBOR:+ 1% = LIBOR. +10%
‘LIBOR 8% fixed = LIBOR .+28%
Gain = 2%
Assuming gainsof 2% is shared-equally; rates with swap:
9:- 1% =8% fixed. LIBOR:+ 1%: 1% = LIBOR
High Risk: Sound Co
° Borrow where comparative’ ;
advantage:lies (LIBOR) + (8% fixed) = LIBOR,+:8%
e Swap: Sound Co pays High
Risk's interest, LIBOR এ _ (LIBORY
High Risk pays Sound Go. (8%) fixed “89% fixed.
০ Rate’ with swap (8%) fixed +. (LIBOR%): = LIBOR.+'8%
e — Rate without swap (9%) fixed+ (LIBOR'+1%) = LIBOR-+.10%
° Overall, gain 1% + 1% = 2%
A variety of:swaps are possible. This‘is just one of: them .
Each, now has cheaper. borrowing in the ‘preferred form (fixed or variable). This ‘is simply an. example of &
comparative advantage. iP)
8 The underlying instrument for an interest rate future is normally a bond, ie-a piece of debt, Selling'futures is v
equivalent to selling (orissuing):debt, ie borrowing money. 8
Tf each futures contract’is for CUS00,000:the treasurér:should sell CU10m + CU500,000-=,20 contracts. Each
contract enables the treasurer’ to. éffectively borrow CU500,000 ‘for a three-month’ period from the end of-
June. |
Profits/losses on:futures contracts
Spot:rate.r 6% 79. 8% ক
Sell a‘future (note:.a price ৩693 implies.a rate-of 7%) 93 93 93
Close out; by buying:the future back‘at'the closing rate ie: 100 —r (94) (93). (92)
Effect.of futures (1%) - 1%
Borrow at spot rate (6%) (7%) (8%)
Overall,effect (7%) (7%) (7%)
cu
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 1425)

ot
+25,000.
কাছ ই rate
০7. ০/ “FY, RI naa
5% 6% , 7% 8% at end of June
-25;000 :
cu:
At?7% spot Agreed'to borrow CU10m for'three months at 7%, spottis 7% .... no gain/no.loss’
At6% spot Agreeing to‘pay extra 1% on CU10m for three months = CU10m x = «x 1%-=CU25,000
At8% spot Saving: 1% on CU1m.for-three: months = CU25,000
9 To illustrate how. the. trading.:in futures helps the investor to. hedge against the ‘risk:‘of adverse price
moyements, consider the. following:
Number of:contiracts required
Value.of portfolio‘at March = CU24,000,000
Value-of contract
e _ Futures ‘price of FTSE 100.index = 5,900
০ ‘Value of each point = CU10
o = Value.of a contract: = CU59,000
Nuimber of contracts = CU 24 million/CUS9,000 = 406.8:round to 407
Futures position
March.— _ Investor will,sell 407‘June:contracts 5900
June: — —‘Investor will élose out.and buy Juné coritracts 5795
Drop‘in price-of চাও Index.futures ‘105:points
Value.of:futures gain = 105 x CU10 x 407 contracts = CU427,350
Overall position.in, June.
‘Value of portfolio = CU23,580,000
Gain_on-futures = CU427,350
Overall, value = CU24,007,350
7 Gain on futtire ০০127 _;
Efficiency = Sainon 00016 27,350 = 101:75%
“ Losson portfolio cu24m,—23.58m
The hedge is‘more than 100%: efficient because:of basis and.rounding. of the number of contracts.
10 Forward rate agreements (FRAs)
Entering: into an FRA with a bank‘will allow the treasurer of Cleff’Ltd.effectively to.lock in an ‘interest:rate.
forthe :six: months of. the loan. This agreement. is: independent of the loan.itself, upon which. the prevailing
rate will be paid. If. the FRA ‘were: negotiated to be at a:rate-of 13%, and the-actual interest rate paid 011 006
Joan were higher than this, the bank: will pay. the difference between the rate paid and 13% to Cleff Ltd.
Conversely, 16 the interest paid, by Cleff turned: out. to be lower than 13%, they: would have: to pay thé
difference 'to'the bank, Thus the:cost'to Cleff will be 13%.
4261 | ‘Financial Management

Interest rate’ futures
Interest rate futurés have the same effect as FRAs, in, effectively locking in, an intetest rate, but they are
‘standardised. in ‘terms of size, duration. and terms. They can. be ‘traded. on an exchange. (such as .LIFFE in
London), and.they will generally be closed out before the maturity date, yielding a profit or loss that is: offset
against the loss or -profit on.'‘the money. transaction that is being hedged. So, for example, as Cleff. ‘is
concerned about'rises in,interest.rates, the treasurer. can ‘sell-future contracts now; if that.rate does rise, their
value will fall, and they:can then: be bought at a lower price, yielding a profit which will compensate. for the:
increase-in Gleff's loan interest cost..If interest rates-fall, the lower. interest cost of the loan willbe offset.by:a
loss On their'futures. contracts.
Interest rate. guarantees
Interest: rate guarantees (or short: term interest rate. options) give Cleff the: opportunity to benefit: from,
favourable interest rate. movements as well as protecting them for, their effects on.adverse movements. ‘They
give the holder'the right but-not the obligation to deal at-an,agreed interest rate. at;a.future maturity date, This
meéins ‘that if interest rates rise, the treasurer would exercise ‘the option, and. ‘lock ‘in’ to ‘the predetermined
borrowing rate. If, however, interest-rates ‘fall, then the option would-simply lapse, and 016 would feel. the.
benefit:of lower interest rates:
1] (38 ~Hedge using the.futures‘market
(i) (ii) (iii)
Setup
Which contract ‘March
What'type Sell.
H a Exposure y __Loan period
HOW many COMETACIS Contract ze.” Lerigth of contract
_ cv6,000,000 x 6
cu500,000 3
=.24 contracts
Closing prices (87.25 — 2) 85.25 (87.25 — 1.75):85.50 (87:25:+ 1.25) 88:50
Outcome
(i) Futures outcome ৰা রা ডে
At opening raté 87.25 87.25 87.25 wo
At closing'rate 85.25 85.50 88.50 A
Futures movement 2% profit 1.75% profit 1.25% loss P
Futures outcome 2% x 3/12 x. 1.75% x 3/12:x (1.25%) x: 3/12. x: v
CU500,000 x 24 00500,000 *« 24. CUS500,000 x 24 E}
contracts contracts _ contracts R
= CU60,000 ‘profit =.CU52,500 profit: ='CU37,500.loss
CU: CU CU বা
(ii): Net.outcome:
Payment.in spot
‘market (450,000) (450,000) (345,000)
CU6:million x 6/12 1
«15% ((a) and
(8))/11.5% (০)
Receipt.in, futures রর 7 নার
market 60,000 52,500 (37300),
Net’ payment (390,000) (397,500) (382,500)
(iii) | Hedge-efficiency 60,000 52:500 37 500
60,000.* _ 100%: 60,000 * _ 87.5% 45,000** _ 83.3%
* — 60,000'='CU6m x 6/12 x (15:- 13)%
45,000 =CU6m x 6/12 x (13-—-11:5)%
(b) Futures hedge.costs
00 Interést;CU6m ¥ 15% x “hr CU450,000
‘Legs, gain'CU60,000. = CU390,000
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 14277

(iy ‘Thterest’ (as:in.(a)) CU450,000
Less gain, CU52,500 = CU397,500
(iii) Interest CU6m x: 1.1.5% x Sho =CU345,000
Add.loss CU37,500 = CU382,500
IRG hedge:costs
The premium.for the guarantee is:
CU6m x 0:25% = CU15,000.
The guarantee would be-used in-cases (i) 3110. 01) when interest:rates increase.
Then, total cost,limiting interest rates:to 13% is:
CU6m x 13% x /j)=CU390,000
Plus premium.CU15,000 equals CU405,000.
This.costs:more than'the futures contracts hedge in ‘cases (i).and (ii).
In case-(iii), the guarantee is not.used.
Interest:costs at: 11.5% are:
CU6m x 11.5% x §/;5 ='CU345,000
Plus CU15,000 premium = CU360,000.
This costs less than the-futures:hedge, reflecting the:fact that declining.to’take up:the 11061590180 option
in-the case of the guarantee has allowed the company 00 take.advantage: of the‘lower interest rates‘in the
cash,.market:
12 (a) Rutini's.treasurer’
Buying futures gives .an.obligation to buy bonds‘ (ie invest.money) at'3.375%. No matter what the: spot.
‘interest.rate.in December is, assuming the: futures are held to maturity, the funds will yield 3.375%.
impactiotihedgingwwithifutures) InterestiraterattendlotesDecember
3:25%. 3.375% 3.5%
September.— ‘Buy futures at 100 —-3.375% (96.625) (96.625) (96.625):
December.— Sell:future-at:closing price 96:78: 96:625 96:50, _
(100.— spot rate) 0.125%. 0 (0. 125%)
gain loss
Overall effect
Borrow at-spot rate’ 3.25% 3.375% 3.5%
Impact:of. futures: rate: 0.125% 0 (0.125%)
3.375% 3.375%, 3.375%
The interest received is:3.375% « 3/12 x CU20 million-invested = 168,750
Call Options ‘will. give the right, ‘but-not*the obligation, to invest at 3.375%. If interest rates rise above
this level:the options will’ be:abandoned..Below’this level they will bé.exércised.
; , , cu
Number, required. = £20me
“ £0.5ncev
= 40 contracts
The value. ofthe call option.— the right to buy a future for 96.625 — is apparent; from. the: above table.
The option. will be-exercised.if a gain can.be-made-ieif:rates drop, but will be abandoned if rates rise to
3.5%. In;:this case, thé interest received on 4:CU20 million. investment 0010 06
‘CU20.million x 3.5%°x'3/12:= CU175,000,
The cost of the option is-CU350 x 40.contracts =.CU14,000.
428} | ‘Financial Management

Euturetspotirate) Action যয) Cui ৫ CUUEN)
3.25% Exercise:option 0.16875 — 0.014 =0.15475: 3.095
3.375% Exercise or abandon, 0.16875 — 0:014 =0.15475 3.095
‘option
3.5% Abandon.option 0.175 — 0:014 =0.161 3:22
(b) Another treasurer
Selling:futures' gives.the obligation (05611 bonds (ie borrow money) at 3.375%. No-matter’what.the' spot.
‘interest.rate.is 'in.December, the'treasurer could.borrow. at/3.375%.
Put.options. give the right, but:not.the obligation, to borrow ‘at-3.375%. If interest-rates ‘rise above this
they. will be exercised; below’ this they will be:abandoned. Again, 40 contracts will be needed..
uturctspoticate) Action Net{costtotithree-month}lioaneUn D wos
3:25% Abandon. option 0.1625 + 0.02 = 0.1825 3:65
3.375% Exercise or abandon, 0.16875 + 0.02 = 0.18875 3.775
‘option
3.5% Exercise:option 0.16875 + 0:02 = 0.18875 3.775
(c) X.Ltd shares
Pay offs : Share:price
CU'000
Strategy CU10 CULL CUu12 CU13 CU14 CUIS
‘No cover 20 22 24 26 28: 30
CU12:00. option 23 23 23 25 27 29,
CU13.00. option 24 24 24 24 26 28
CU14.00 option 25 25 25 25 25 27
The suitability 01 the. strategy depends upon the treasurer's attitude’to risk and the-probability of each. ডে
share price. The: higher the.exercise price of the option’the greater the protection given, but the smaller [|
the’participation in favourable price-moyeiments. A
. P
(0) Rutini director v
Three-month Profit loss} Profit/(loss) Net R
Share, price on call on put pay off
CU. cu CU CU বা
11 (500) 1,500 1,000
12 (500) 500. ‘0
13 (500) (500) (i,000y
14 500 (500) 0 .
15 1,500 (500) 1,000
Comment
The treasurer has employed.a “straddle'. He will profit if the share price rises above CU14.00 or falls: below
CU12:00. Otherwise he-will lose:.,
Note::The writer:of the-straddle: will profit:from stability..

‘Swapit:Ltd Badcred Ltd
‘Borrows at 10% ‘LIBOR +:0:5%
‘Receives (10.1%) (LIBOR)
‘Pays LIBOR 10.1%.
, LIBOR —.0.1% 10.6%
‘Managing financial risk: interest rate-and other.risks | 1429)

Overall saving 0.8%
14: (a) With LIBOR.at:12% forthe next’year,.the cost with the’swap would be-as follows,
CU'000.
Interest? 10,000 % (1413 + 12.4 1%2)% 1,450
Fee 10
1,460
With LIBOR. at 12%-for six:months and at 10% thereafter,-the cost with the swap would,be as follows.

Interest: 10,000, 014 —13 + (12 + 10)/2 +.1%4)% 1,350
Fee. 10
1,360
Without the swap, the cost.would be CU10,000,000 x 14% =:CU1,400,000.
The swap would ‘therefore be disadvantageous to Swapper Ltd if LIBOR were ‘to remain at 12%
throughout‘the year, but advantageous were LIBOR to fall to '10%:after six months.

(0) Possible new terms would. be for Swapper. [td to receive 13%. and pay LIBOR, + 34%. The: net: cost:
would be LIBOR + 34%. + (14 -.13)% = LIBOR, + 134%, which is 44% less than the rate at which the:
company could raise:floating rate debt.

Mover Ltd would then effectively have fixed,rate debt-at: 13% + (1 — 34)% = 1314%, which is %4% less
‘than the:raté at which it-could otherwise have-such debt.
430 | ‘Financial Management

~ + A en — df a Manes ry a mS NG pipe . 3 FG ee ৫. tess ay 3 Fe ১ ° ৫13
ফিক সা ১ সে 9 হত tee 1 mec oie pds Boy
আক Rs NY পপ টক = BRACE AIRES, RE ey a" ped Since UTS meee See সে
সি bs কা: Panag ee ২ ৯ ১১২১৭ কই ROAR SG Oy a cepa Soe
Pest চে = ক SE Heres sl» ae a ~~ ties: mae ee argo | — ২২২: Settee Sei aes rea ৷ Wan.

Leste = ad petty i ee ee ৭ এ ১১২ ৪ ১ কে
নী সা re
6 ete ক তা
চর ee নী =
SS ee ee
NNR oe ০৯৯৩০১১১২১১১২ ১1 (:- |e - তো ১ ০তোা....
Managing financial risk:
Introduction.
Examination.context.
Topic List

1] Exchange rates:

2 Risk:and foreign,exchange

3. Forwards and-futures

4 Hedging using the, money markets

5 Currency options

6 Hedging economic and translation exposure
Summary and. Self-test
Answers.to.Interactive questions
Answérs to.Self-test

[er

Introduction

Learning objectives Tick off
To explain the.key-risks deriving from foreign exchange.movements. [i]
০ To.explain how. financial investment can_be-used to,hedge against foreign:exchange:risk যা
© ‘To demonstrate. how hedges'work using’non-complex calculations [
e To.identify appropriate:methods:of managing the risks:Of overseas trade [jj
The syllabus'references relevant:to:this:chapter:are 11, 2a, b, 0.
Syllabus. links:
The reporting. and. auditing of. hedging techniques’ is.explored in Financial.Accounting, Financial Reporting’ and in
Audit and-Assurance..The:techniques introduced in this'chapter‘are taken further at Advanced level, ‘in assessing’a
business’ overarching hedging strategy.
Examination:context
In the exam you may bezasked to explain and illustrate-how hedges work:in a-straightforward scenario. Knowledge
of. how to-construct a hedge.and: how to.choose: between different:hedges may be tested.

438} | ‘Financial Management

1. Exchange rates:
v=) Section overview
(ke j © The rates at which dealers. buy and:sell currency are known as:the bid.and- offer prices.
WONT
e¢ Most currencies:are quoted.in ‘indirect terms from a’Bangladesh perspective.
° Changes:in exchange:‘rates create risk to importers and.exporters.
‘1.1. Quoting exchange‘rates

An exchange ‘rate. is the rate at which one country's: currency can. be traded in exchange for another country's.

currency.

The spot rate is the.exchange:rate currently offered on.a particular currency. It:is the rate quoted for immediate

delivery of the currency.

The forward rate-is an excharige’rate Set for‘clirrencies to bé exchanged at a-futiire-date,

Every traded currency in: fact has many exchange rates. There:is an exchange rate with every othier'traded currency

on'the foreign exchange:markets. Foreign exchange dealers make their profit by buying currency for lessthan they

sell it;,and so thére-are really two exchange rates, a buying‘rate and.a selling rate.

These are known as the bid — offer prices respectively. The price between these two-is known as ‘thé mid-point and

itis. ofteri quoted as the-exchange-rate, although no trading will take place:at the-mid-point:.

“4 :Worked ‘example: Foreign’exchange quotes
B A Bangladeshi bank quoted a spot spread for dollars of $1.7935 —:$1.8075. which,allows it to make-a gain on any
* buying or selling of the.currency as-follows.

A trading company has imported goods for. which it must.now pay'US$10,000:

(a) ‘The company will ask:a'bank.to séll.it US$10,000. If the:company.is buying currency, the bank.is selling it.

(b) When, the bank, agrees. to ‘sell. US$10,000 'to the company, it will tell the. company what the: spot rate of
exchange will be for 016 08115800011, If the bank's selling :rate. (known as the ‘offer', or ‘ask’ price) is, say:
$1:7935:for, the currency; .the bank: will:charge the.company:

__$10,000 =Tk 5,575.69
$1.7935 pertk1

Similarly, if:an.exporter-is paid, say, US$10,000 by:a customer:in the-USA, he will ask his bank to buy. the dollars

from him. Since‘the exporter is selling:currency to the.bank, the bank is buying the currency.

If. the: bank quotes a buying rate (known as:the bid price) of, say. $1:8075, for the currency the: bank will pay the

exporter:

$10,000 nan K, 1

——__—— =7Tk.5,532.50

$1.8075 ‘perk 1 : রি

A bank:expects to make: a ‘profit from.selling ‘and buying ‘currency, ‘and it-does so by offering ‘a rate for selling*a AY

currency ‘which is different fromthe rate:for buying: the-currency.. [1

Ee
R
a
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 1439)

ey Interactive question 1: Exchange rates: (Difficulty, level: Intermediate],
Le Calculate how much Taka exporters would receive or how. much Taka importers would pay, ignoring. the bank's:
- commission,, in each of the: following situations, if’ they were: to exchange 016 overseas currency and Taka at the
spot rate.
(a) .A.Bangladeshi exporter:receives a:payment from:a Danish customer.of '150,000:kroners.
(b) A Bangladeshi importer buys: goods:from'a Japanese supplier and:pays' 1 million yen.
Spot:rates are.as‘follows.
Bank sells (offer) Bank:buys (bid)
Danish.Kr/Tk 9.4340 9.5380
Japan¥/Tk: 203.650 - 205.781
See Answer at the end of'this chapter.
1:2. Direct and indirect currency. quotes
A direct.quote.is the:amount.of domestic currency‘which.is equal to ‘one foreign currency‘unit.
An indirect quote.is the amount.of.foreign currency‘which is equal to one domestic currency-unit.
In.Bangladesh indirect: quotes.are‘invariably used but, in most countries,-direct quotes are:more common.
Currencies may be quoted in either direction. For example,.the US dollar and euro might'be.quoted as-€/$ =:0.7745
or $/€ = 1.2912. In othier words.0.7745€ = $1 and 1.2912$-= €1. One-rate is simply the teciprocal of the other.
2: Risk and foreign exchange.
=> . A
y= Section overview
LSS
Oa ০ Currency movements create different types of risk — economic, translation and transaction risk.
ROK y YP 3
০ Direct risk reduction methods:are based’on.:matching receipts and payments on-assets and.liabilities,
The following different types.of currency-risk may be:distinguished..
দোলথি। Definitions’
0. Transaction risk? this is: the risk, of. adverse..exchange rate movements occurring in the course. of normal
international trading transactions.
This arises when the prices of imports or-exports are fixed.in foreign.currency terms.and there-is movement-in, the
exchange rate between ‘the date. when. the price is agreed, and the date when the cash is paid or received in
settlement.
‘Translation risk? this:is the:risk:that the:organisation will make exchange losses when the.accounting:results of ‘its
foreign branches‘or subsidiariesiare translated into the:home:currency.
Translation losses ‘can result, for example, from:restating the book value: of a foreign subsidiary's assets at: the
exchange rate-at:the balance sheet-date.
Economic ‘risk: this refers to the effect of exchange ‘rate:movements on the international competitiveness of. a
company.
4410 | ‘Financial. Management

For example, a Bangladeshi company. might use raw materials which are: priced in US dollars, but export’ its
products mainly within the‘local région. 9000 a depreciation of Taka against the dollar. of an appréciation of Taka.
against: other-local.ciirrencies ‘will erode the competitiveness of the company. Economic exposure can.be difficult.
to dvoid, although diversification of the supplier and customer base across different: countries ‘will. reduce this
kind of exposure to'risk:
2:2, Managing transaction‘exposure
We:shall now: look at:the various:means, by which a business, can:manage its exposure to exchange rate risk.’ We:are
principally concerned here with the:risk that has a direct effect, on,immediate cash ‘flows —-transaction nsk: This
risk:1s illustrated in the-following question.
[নল] গগ01160 058111016: Changes in exchange rates;
| Bulldog Ltd,.a Bangladeshi company, buys goods from Redland which cost; 100,000 Reds (the local currency). The:
goods 316 ré-sold in ‘Bangladesh .for, Tk32,000. At the ‘time of the import purchase thé. exchange fate for: Reds
against Taka.is 3.5650 — 3:5800..
Requirement.
What isthe expected profit on the-re-sale?
Bulldog: must,buy Reds to pay‘the supplier, and.so.the,bank:is selling Reds. The expected profit:is as; follows.
Tk
Revenue:from re-sale of:goods 32,000.00.
Less.cost-of 100,000 Reds:in Taka ( 3.5650) 28,050.49
Expected profit 3;949.51,
Lay. Interactive question 2:' Transaction risk (Difficulty level: Intermediate]!
Le Calculate the: actual, profit: earned by Bulldog Ltd in the ‘above: example: if. the spot rate at the: time when the
a ~ currency:is received has moved to:
(a) 3.0800 — 3:0950
(b) 4.0650 —-4:0800,
Ignore.bank:commission. charges.
See.Answer at the end of this chapter.
2.3. Should we hedge?
While the:idea of'reduced. risk may sound appealing, it is of course possible: to do nothing ie leave the. business
open to-changes in the foreign exchange rate. There are a:number of, factors to consider before getting involved in .
hedging ‘activities.
: - ও
Costs Using .hedges often means: incurring. costs.. Many. hedges require’ use of a third party, HA]
such,as.a bank or an exchange, which:means:transaction.costs’of various types. AY
Exposure. The extent ofthe risk faced —‘for.example, if the amount-is-not material in'‘the context of e
the firin's business then incurring the costs of hedging thé risk, may‘not be worthwhile. B
Attitude to risk A firm may. benefit from exchange.rates moving in a favourable. direction. Many of*the R
hedges explained:in this chapter simply fix the exchange rate, thus removing any upside
potential:as well.as downside risk. t
Portfolio effect For ‘many. international. businesses, the :nature of the trade may be such that they trade 10
with many’ different countries, in a‘wide.range of. currencies. In ‘such circumstances ‘the
overall effect .of different currency movements needs to be assessed, as the
strengthening in. some may be’cancelled by:a weakening:in others. *
Shareholders If-shareholders are-fully diversified, it can be argued that this should take:account of the
Managing: financial.risk: overseas:trade | 441

strengthening —. and consequent: weakening — of ‘individual currencies. A, currency: can
only, strengthen relative. to another; and therefore an increase-in the'value. ofan asset in
one currency: can only happen jf there is a. decrease in the value of an asset. held in
another currency,,
If. such a situation, exists; there-is no benefit to. hedging, as ‘fully diversified. investors’
exposure to systematic risk will not be-affected.
That, being said, the above comments regarding diversified shareholders only apply 111 3
perfect capital market :and many. investors .are not, fully diversified internationally: ‘In
practice managers: will know the actual exposure of a firm in a -way that, shareholders
will ‘not, and therefore the shareholders may well benefit, from a firm's hedging
activities.
Insolvency risk and Following: on from.the above, because hedging does reduce’ the volatility of a business’
cost.of capital cashflows and thus. the’ risk ‘of insolvency, there: should be a reduction in the cost of
capital to reflect:this.
While there are:many factors to consider before hedging currency risk, it rieeds to be put into context:— if the-risk
derives from-an-import or’export:trade, given the many‘additional trading risks'that:are-a feature of:this (see section.
6.5 below), the presence’ of ‘currencyirisks ontop of this is: generally fairly unwelcome, Combined. with the fact’that
simple hedges: such as forward contracts are.not. that expensive, many companies do. make’ use:of hedges.
2.4: Direct risk reduction’methods
The forward exchange contract:is perhaps ‘the most.important method of ‘obtaining cover against risks, where. a
firm decides that it does:not:wish to speculate on.foreign exchange movements. This-is discussed later in section.3
of this chapter. However, there-are other methods:of reducing risk ‘which we shall. consider first.
One way-of avoiding exchange risk is.for, an exporter, to invoice his:foreign customer.in his domestic:currency, ‘or
গোরা importer to-arrange: with his:foreign supplier to be invoiced in:his:domestic:currency.
However, although either the exporter or the importer. can-avoid any exchange risk in this way, only‘one of them
can.deal;in his domestic currency. The other‘must accept the exchange:‘risk, since: there will. be a period of time:
elapsing between,agreeing a.contract:and paying:for.the goods (unless payment:is made with the order).
2.6 Matching receipts and payments
A company'can,teduce or eliminate its foreign, exchange transaction.exposure by matching (or netting off);teceipts
and payments. Wherever possible,.a company that.expects to make‘payments and. have receipts:in the same-foreign
currency should plan to offset its payments:against its receipts'in the currency.
Since: the: company will be ‘setting off foreign ‘currency .receipts. against foreign. currency payments, it does not
matter whether the currency strengthens or weakens against the company's ‘domestic’ currency because. there will,
be no purchase or‘sale’of the currency.
How to do this?
The process of matching ‘is made:simpler by having foreign currency accounts with a bank, Receipts of. foreign.
currency can be. credited to: the account. pending. subsequent: payments in the currency, (Alternatively, a. company
might invest its foreign.currency income in the country of:the currency — for example,-it-might-have a bank deposit
account abroad.—-and‘make*payments’with these overseas 'assets/deposits.)
Since‘a company is unlikely to.have exactly the same amount:of. receipts ina currency-as it makes payments, it-will.
still be exposed to the extent: of. the net of income versus. payments, and so the company .may wish ‘to avoid
exposure-on.this difference by arranging:‘forward exchange cover.
‘Why do this?’
Offsetting (matching. payments ‘against receipts) will be cheaper than arranging a forward. contract to buy
currency and. another forward contract to sell’the currency, provided. that:receipts occur before payments, and.the
time difference between receipts and payments in the currency“is not too long.. Any material differences between
the: amounts ‘receivable and ‘the amounts payable in. a. given currency should. be covered. by ‘a forward. exchange
contract‘to. buy/sell.the:amount.of the:difference.
OD | ‘Financial. Management

2.7. Matching assets'and liabilities
A company which expects to receive a substantial :arhount: of income in a.foreign éurrency will be:concered that
this:currency may weaken. It-can. hedge against this possibility ‘by borrowing in thé.foreign currency and-using:the
foteign-receipts to repay the loan.
For-example, US dollar receivables can be hedged by taking out.a US dollar. overdraft. In the same way;, US dollar
trade.payables can be matched against a US dollar bank. account: which.is used ‘to‘pay the creditors.
A company which has a long-term foreign investment, for example. an overseas subsidiary, will :similarlytry to
match:its foreign assets (property, plant:etc) bya long-term loan in the.foreign currency.

2.8: Leads and lags
Companies-might'try ‘to use:
9 Lead:payments (payments.in advance)
° Lagged payments (delaying-payments beyond their due.date).
inorder to take. advantage of. foreign exchange rate;movements. With a.lead payment, paying in.advance of the due
date, there is a,finance:cost to consider. This is the:interest cost on the:money-used to make the:payment, but early
settlement:-discounts.may be-available.,
It. should. ৮6 noted, however“that leading or lagging is effectively speculating on hoped for' currency movements,
Which.may not materialise.

3 Forwards and futures
z=s| Section overview
ods ০ Forward exchange-contracts: give a. fixed exchange rate.

° Option:forward:exchange-contracts.allow:for. flexibility on when the contract is.delivered.
e _-Forward.contracts:.can be.closed-out rather than delivered.
e _Forward-exchange-rates can be quoted 3$ a:premiuin or a.discountito-the spot.rate.
© Interest:rate differentials.explain the:difference between the spot and the forward.rate.
© Futures.ate standardised ‘forward contracts.

3.1, Forward’exchange;contracts
Forward exchange contracts hedge:against transaction exposure by allowing the importer or exporter to arrange for
a bank to sell or buy a quantity of foreign currency .at.a future date; at a rate of exchange, determined, when the:
forward contract is‘made. The trader will know in advance either how much local currency he:will.receive (if he
is, selling:foreign currency to the bank)-or how much local currency he:must pay-(if he.is ‘buying:foreign currency |
from the-bank). C
Forward ‘contracts: are very popular with-small:companies. ‘The-current spot price is irrelevant:to the-outcome of.a AN
forward contract: [2
A forward exchange‘contract is: u
° =An:immediately firm and binding contract, ০৪ between a. bank and its. customer R
° For the:purchase‘or sale of a-specified:quantity of'a stated:foreign currency
@ Ata rate of exchange fixed at the-time.the contract is.made ia
eo _- For performance (delivery ০1016 currency and:payment for it) at a future time which.is agreed when making

the. contract. (This:future time'will be either a.specified.date, or,any time between two-specified dates.)
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 14.43}

নন 7 Worked ‘example: Forward exchange contract’

A Bangladeshi ‘importer knows on 1 April that he. must pay a. foreign. seller 26,500 Swiss francs. in one month's.

time,,on 1 May. He. can arrange a.forward exchange. contract with his bank. on. 1 April, whereby the bank

undertakes to sell the:importer:26,500 Swiss francs‘on 1 May, at a fixed ‘rate-of-say:2.6400 to:the Taka.

The Bangladeshi importer can be.certain.that’whateyer the spot:rate is between Swiss ‘francs and. Taka on: 1 May,

he will have to‘pay on that date, at’this forward:rate:

26,500 110,037.88

2.6400

(a) If the. spot-rate-in one month is lower than 2:6400, the importer would have successfully protected himself
against a weakening of Taka (strengthening-of the Swiss franc), and would have avoided paying more. Taka
to-obtain the Swiss francs..

(b) If the spot rate is higher than :2.6400, Taka's ‘value against the: Swiss franc would ‘mean that the importer
would pay more ‘under the forward exchange contract: than. he would have had-to pay: if he had obtained the
francs;at.the spot rate-on | May: He cannot-avoid this extra cost, because a.forward contract.is binding.

Summary

Thus the: impact of a forward contract is. to remove both upside potential and downside risk. It gives a fixed.

exchange rate.

‘3.2.1; What happens if.a customer cannot satisfy a forward contract?’

A customer might be unable‘to‘satisfy.a forward contract.for‘any one of atnumber of’ reasons:

e An.importer might;find that:

— His.supplier fails to deliver the goods as specified, so the:importer. will not accept the goods-delivered
and: will:not.agree to pay forthem

— The supplier sends fewer goods. than expected, perhaps because of supply shortages, -and so the
importer has.less to pay for

— The supplier:is late with the delivery, and so:the importer does.not have to pay for'the goods until. later
than expected

8 An exporter. might find the same’ types of situation, but in reverse, so that-he does not receive any payment-at
‘all, or .he receives: more.or less ‘than-originally éxpected,. or he. receives the expected. amount, but only after
‘some delay.

3.2.2, Close-out of forward contracts

If.a customer'cannot satisfy a-forward-exchange.contract,-the bank will.make the customer-fulfil the contract.

o Tf, the customer has arranged ‘for the bank:to buy:currency but the:customer is-unable to- deliver the.currency,
the bank: will:

— Sell.currency to:the customer at:the:spot rate;(when the:contract:falls due;for, performance)
— Buy the‘currency back, under.the terms of the forward exchange.contract

৩ 10016 customer.has contracted for the bank ‘to:sell-him.currency’ which the customerno longer‘needs, the bank:
will:
= Seéll'the customer'the:specified amount of currency at‘the‘forward, exchange-rate
= Buy back’the unwanted currency’ atthe Spot.rate,

Thus,:the bank:arranges for the customer, to perform.his part of the forward, exchange-contract by either selling or

buying ‘the ‘missing’ curtency at the spot-rate. These artangements aré known as closing out a forward exchange:

contract.
৫04 | ‘Financial. Management

3.3; Option‘forward exchange contracts:
Option forward contracts are:forward:exchange: contracts:where the customer.has the:option to:call for performance
of the contract:
° At any date from the contract being made, up '‘to.a specified datesin-the future, or
০ Atvany date. between two dates both in the: future:
Performance. must:take place. at:some time: it;cannot be avoided altogether.
Option .forward.contracts are:normally used to cover whole months straddling the: likely payment date, where:the
customer is: not sure of the ‘exact: date .on which he will.want to buy or’sell currency. (The purpose’ of. an option
forward ‘contract is to. avoid having. to renew a forward exchange contract: and, extend ‘it by a few days, because
extending a forward contract.can.be-expensive:)
(CS i Worked‘example:: Option forward contract
A Bangladeshi:company must. pay $100,000 in approximately: 142 months’ time. and takes ‘out.an: option ‘forward,
exchange contract:to eliminate the-foreign currency transaction.risk.
Exchange rate‘details are:
© Today's spot-rate $1.9500 to.the Tk:
@ One month forward.rate. $1.9475 [০:01 Tk:
০ Two:month,forward.rate $1.9450 tothe Tk
Requirement.
Explain‘how the foreign debt will be settled in 1% months’ time:,
The bank: will offer an option forward exchange-contract to-the company, allowing the company to choose when,
between one:month's time-and two month's-time, the:currency is:needed. The rate will be either-the one monthcrate
or the two ‘month.rate, which:ever is more beneficial to the-bank.
At‘one month:rate cost'=:$100,000:+ 1.9475 = Tk51,348:
At:two month rate:cost'= $100,000.= 1.9450 ="Tk51,4.14.
Therefore the-rate chosen will be, the two;month rate, as that‘is more beneficial to the bank:
How ‘are forward rates determined? The next section explores how and why forward rates are different:from. spot
rates,
A forward rate might be higher or lower'than the spot'rate. For example, if the:spot rate for dollars.is $1-85/Tk, the:
forward rate could be:
Higher — $1.86 — the-forward raté is.gaid to be-at:a discountto‘the.spot-rate. r
Lower'- $1.83.—the:forward fate is.said to bé at'a.premium to the-spot rate:. টে
১১৯0 বোর 00
3.5. The rule for adding or subtracting discounts and premiums P
TORWARD RATES AS ADIUSTMENTS TO SROT RATIOS v
Forward rate-for the overseas currency:is weaker, than:spot Quoted at:discount 8
Forward rate for the overseas currency:is stronger-than spot Quoted at:premium.
A 01500111613 therefore added to-the spot rate, and a premium is subtracted fromthe spot rate. (The mnemonic. সা
ADDIS may help-you,to:remember that we ADD Discounts and, so-subtract:premiums.) The longer the duration of +1 0)
a forward. contract, the larger will be the quoted premium or discount.
Worked’example:-Adjusting for'a premium ‘or. discount :
, lJanuary: Spot,rate-US $: $1.9500 - 1.9610
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | YB

one-month ‘forward discount? 0.20¢ = 0:22¢

three-month forward premium: 0:22¢ = 0.18¢
Requirement.
What are‘the.forward:rates quoted for one-and thrée:months;contracts;respectivel y?
The forward adjustments here.are given in cents:and need :to be.converted to-dollars.
For example: one month: forward.discount 0:200. - 0220

Equates-to $0:0020 — -$0.0022
Spot:rate $1.9500 —. '$1.9610
one'month.forward. 1.9520. — 1.9632
Obtained by-adding:the discount to’ the spot.
three-month forward 1.9478 - 1.9592.
Obtained by deducting the premium from the spot.
3.6: Interest rate parity.
The principle of interest rate parity (IRP) links: the currency and. ‘money markets and explains differences
between the forward and spot rates.
The basic‘idea behind IRP ‘is that if‘an investor places money:in a.currency with a high ‘interest-rate, they. will be no
better off after conversion back into their domestic currency using a forward contract than if they had simply left
the:money invested at the domestic interest rate.
~~) Worked’example: Interest:rate parity:
A treasurer has TkIm.available:to‘place on deposit for ‘12 months.
° ৩৮০01862645 $1.5234/Tk.
9 Forward rate is:$1.5407/Tk
০ Annual Bangladesh:rate of.interéstiis 6%
° Annual US:rate-of:interest:is 7:2%-
Requirements
(a) What:would happen‘if the Tk1m was deposited. in either Bangladesh.or the US?
(b) What is the implication of this:for the forward exchange rate?
(a) The treasurer could convert the: Tk1m.into dollars, and put it‘on deposit in the US at‘7.2%.
After a-year, the' dollar amount would be converted back‘to Taka:
44161 | ‘Financial. Management

Now. One-year
$ ‘Cash Invest @ 7.2%
+ flow $1.5234m 9 3=3=———— $1633 I'm.
| Convert.@ $1.5234:
nm (Cash
\ lnivest @ ‘6% ,
The two alternative investments would give $1.6331m_and Tk1.06m respectively.
Which of these is:preferable depends-on the-exchange rate in one year. If the exchange rate stays at:$1.5234,
then the:US. deposit:converts into.
($1.633:.m 93 $1.5234/Tk): = Tk1.072m.
ie a'7.2% return instead.of a,6% return.
(b) Interest:rate: parity predicts that there will be no benefit-after the, impact of the exchange 1806 19 taken into
account.
Thus. the:forward'rate-of:exchange’ predicted by IRP is:$1.6331/Tk1.06:= $1.5407/Tk.
If. the forward ‘rate. were not set at $1.5407/Tk, a disequilibrium position ‘is created. ‘For ‘example, ‘if the
forward ‘rate were set. equal to the spot.rate: of $1.5234, the implications: are that.investors would be keen to
sell. dollars:in the’forward. market and buy Taka. These: forces of supply and.demand would cause dollars to
weaken:and Taka to strengthen, and thus the:forward.rate would change.
Note that is what the example has ‘shown; a forward rate: of $1.5407:is a weaker dollar rate than 016 spot:rate
of.$1.5234.
The process by ‘which the relationship between spot and forward rates: is ‘maintained through. buying and
selling of the.currency:is known as.arbitrage.
3.7 ‘Use of interest rate parity:to forecast future exchange rates
The relationship between.the spot.and_ forward rates is:shown-algebraically as follows:
a +h; রা _
Spot:rate x ——— = Forward rate ,
1+i yap ————
Where ig is-the overseas interest rate ডে
Tgp 19:06 domestic interest. rate A
and where the.spot.and forward rates:are:quoted:as indirect .quotes.. [2
The interest rate parity. formula.links: the 010 010. 6১018118021 16: 101 interest rates inca fairly exact relationship, v
because risk-free gains are possible if the rates are out. of alignment. The forward rate: tends to be an unbiased 8
predictor of the:future exchange rate. So does this mean that :future-exchange.rates :can be predicted using interest:
rate parity?
The simple answer is ‘yes’, but of course the prediction:is ‘subject to very. large-inaccuracies, because:events which ia
arise:in the future-can.cause.large:currency swings in the: opposite:direction, to:that predicted by interest-rate: parity.
! ey Interactive question 3: Interest rate parity. (Difficulty teval: Easy}, 1
Le A Bangladeshi. company is expecting to receive $1 million ‘in one ‘year's time. The spot rate 15 $1.95/Tk. The
, company:could borrow in dollars at 6%:or in Taka at 5%. Predict’ what:the exchange rate is.likely to be in one year..
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | OW

See.Answer at the end: of this chapter.
‘3:8: Purchasing power parity:(PPP),
(A Definition,
[| Purchasing power: parity: the: theory that in the long term:-exchange rates. between currencies will tend to reflect.
— the relative purchasing power of:each country.
This theory:is based, on the:idea that a basket-of goods.in one country will — after-the effect of the:exchange:rate —
cost the samé no matter where itiis traded. It is. sometimes called -the:law of one price.
| Worked example:-Purchasing power parity’
b Consider a-colléction, of goods that;séll for’ Tk1,000-in;Bangladesh.
' Tfthe exchange rate-is $1.80/Tk, what;are the implications of the-same goods sélling:for $2,000 in the US?
Solution’
In principle, if the sarne goods, cost $2,000 in, the US, instead, of (Tk1,000 @ $1.80) = $1,800, then, consumers
would buy-from Bangladesh (requiring Tk) and not in the US (therefore: selling $):
These forces of supply and. demand would ultimately cause. the exchange rate to alter with. dollars: weakening to
$2.00/Tk,.at which point the-pricés-are effectively the:same.
Different inflation rates
The impact-of different inflation rates will cause prices to ‘change at different speeds. So even if parity. has been,
achieved (as above).a disequilibrium will be created.
Purchasing power parity predicts that:the: disequilibrium will be-rernoyed by exchange rates:changing.
Worked‘éxample: Different inflation rates
Taking theisituation aboye, ie wheré.an equilibrium 0016 of $2/Tk exists, show what-would.happén if
_ © Expected inflation in Bangladesh is 3%
© Expected inflation in the-US is 4%
Solution’
Now -One‘year
4%
“US: Goods:cost:$2,000 ——_+ $2,080.
Exchange rate: $2/:1k
UK: Goods costTk 1,000: ——— >. TkK=1;030:
3%
A disequilibrium is:created in.one. year which.is then removed.by ‘the exchange:rate‘altering.
The new:equilibrium exchange. rate: would be $2,080/Tk1,030 =$2.0194/Tk
Note: This:is the:application of the’same.relationship<as set.out above:
- A+ip
Spot.rate x —— = Forward rate
14 laap
OB | ‘Financial. Management

gorrk.x 104. .$2.0194
1.03.
নোলশি। Definition
AL Currency futures: A currency future is a:Contract to buy or sell a standardised ammount: of a currency for:notional
delivery:atia 5০৮80 in the future.
AS was introduced.inr Chapter’9, these are standardised forward contracts, but differ-in séme Significant regards,
For example, ‘the ‘Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME) trades Sterling futures contracts: with a standard Size of
£62,500. Only whole number‘multiples of this amount can be bought or’sold.
As with interest-rate futures, they can only be-delivered on certain dates ০৪ Stefling futures have contract datés of:
March,.June, September or December..
Whilst futures achieve a similar outcome to forward contracts, being afixed rate of exchange, the mechanics are
different.
A US. exporter is expected to-recéive £250,000 in December.
_ —_Ttis curently August.
০ The:spot.rate.now is: $1.85/£
° The quote:for December futures is: $1.85/£.
The US:exporter uses futures to hédge its currency:risk: Contract size:is £62,500.
In December, thé: company receives £250,000.
০. _ The:spot.rate‘in. December moved to $1.90
০ The futures rate:in December:was.also:$1.90
Show the outcome. of.a futures hedge.
Number. of contracts = £250,000 + £62,500 = 4 contracts
Exporter, needs to-sedl:futures.(sell £ s)
In.August — the hedge is set:up by
Selling.(4 contracts x £62,500) = £250,000 for December delivery at'$1.85
In.December - the futures position.is closed
Buying (4-contracts'x:£62,500)'=-£250,000: for. December at.delivery $1.90 ৪
Summary.of futures position |
$ Ay
Sell. £ for 1.85 P
Buy £ for (1.90) u
‘Loss per.£ (0.05) R
$0:05/£ x (£62,500 x:4:contracts) = $12,500
The £250,000 received by the:-US exporter:is then sold-in-December at the prevailing’ spot rate: 1.0)
£250,000 @ $1.90 = $475,000
Notice‘that-Sterling strengthened in the-spot rate over the period,-causing an incredse-in-the value of: the Sterling as ,
follows:
$
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 049.

Value 0£2250,000-71, August @ 1.85 462,500:

Value. of £250,000-—-in. December @ 1.90 475,000

Increase in-value 12,500

Summary:

$

Increase in value of ‘Sterling ‘remittance: 12,500,

Loss. due to futures position 12,500

Thus the futures: hedges.remove:risk:— both upside potential (as above) and downside risk.

The above simplified example shows:a perfect hedge. In reality this is unlikely:to happen, due:to basis risk;and the

standardised nature, of futures contracts.

A futures market hedge attempts to.achieve the same-résult as.a forward contract, 01808 to fix the exchange rate in

advance for a future foreign: currency paymentor;réceipt..

Advantages of.futures over forward contracts

০ _ Transaction costs should be lower.

° The exact. date of receipt or payment of the currency does not haye to be known, because the futures
contract: does ‘not have to be.closed-out until the.actial cash receipt Or payment-is made. In other words, the
futtires hedge gives the ‘equivalent. of an ‘option forward: contract, limited only by the expiry date of the
contract,

Disadvantages of futures-compared with forward contracts

০ The contracts cannot be tailored to.the user's exact:requirements.

© Hedge inefficiencies‘are caused by having to-deal.in a-whole‘number of contracts.and by basis.risk ie pricing
differences between spot-markets- and futures markets.

০ Only a limited number of. currericies.are the subject of futures contracts (although, the number of ‘currencies
i$ growing, especially. with: the rapid development of, Asian economiés):

০. _- The procedure for converting between two currencies neither of whichis the US dollar is: more complex.for
futures compared to a:forward.contract.

In general, the disadvantages of futures mean that the market is:much smaller than. the currency forward market.

4 Hedging using the money markets
S|] . .
z= +Section.overview
seas ০ A-money market hedge achieves-the:sarne end-as a forward contract.
° A-money market hedge matches:assets-and liabilities:in.the same currency:
° The ‘choice.of hedge is.determined by which is cheapest.
‘4.1, Money market hedges

Because of; the close relationship between: forward exchange rates. and the interest rates in the two-currencies, Jit is

possible to ‘manufacture’ a forward rate by using the spot exchange rate and money market lending‘or. borrowing.

This technique:is known as a money:market hedge or synthetic forward.

4.2: Setting up.a money. market ‘hedge for.a.foreign currency:payment.

Suppose..a Bangladeshi ‘company. needs to pay a Swiss creditor in, Swiss: francs in three months’ time. .It does :not.

have enough, cash to pay.:now, but will have sufficient in three months’ time. Instead of negotiating a forward

contract; the company could:

Step 1

Borrow the appropriate amount:in Taka now

450) | ‘Financial Management

Step 2
Convert the Taka to francs immediately
Step 3
Put the.francs on deposit‘in a Swiss:franc bank account
Step 4
When.the.time.comes.to: pay the company:
(a) Pays the:creditor out.of the franc'bank:account
(৮) Repays the.pound loan account.
The effect is exactly the same:as using a-forward contract, and will-usually cost‘almost-exactly the same amount. If
the-results from @ money market hedge were-very different from. a forward. hedge, speculators could make-money
without taking a‘risk. Therefore market forces:ensure’that.the two hedges produce ‘very’similar results.
oy a Worked ‘example: Money:market hedge
A Bangladeshi. company owes a. Danish creditor’ Kr 3,500,000 ‘in three. months’ time, The spot exchange rate :is
: Kr/Tk 7.5509 — 7.5548. The company can borrow in Taka for three months at 8.60% per annum _and can deposit.
kroners for three months: at:.10%. per annum. ‘What is the cost in Taka with.a money market hedge and what.
effective forward:rate:would this represent?
The interest’ rates for’ three months. are: 2.15% ‘to borrow. in Taka. and 2.5% to deposit in kroners. The company
needs to deposit enough kroners now so'that'the total including interest will be Kr3,500,000-in three months’ time.
This means depositing:
Kr3,500,000/(1. + 0.025) = Kr3,414,634.
These kroners will ‘cost 'Tk452,215 (spot rate 7.5509). The ‘company. must borrow this amount and, with. three
months’ interest of 2.15%, will.have to. repay:
Tk452,215 x (1 40,0215) = Tk461,938.
Thus, in three months, the Danish, creditor will be paid out of the.Danish bank-account;and the company will be
paying Tk461,938 to. satisfy this debt. The effective. forward :rate which the: company has ‘manufactured! ‘is
3,500,000/461,938 = 7:5768. This effective. forward rate shows the kroner at a discount.to the Taka. because the
kroner interest rate:is higher than the-Taka rate.
Step 2: a a
Tk Convert Kr
Step 1: 7১১0? 5993: ৪
Borrow কাত -- ০৮ Deposit গা)
Tk 452,215 Kr3,414,634 A
P
v
Interest ‘Interest Ee
paid:2.15% earned: 2.5% R
Step 4(b): Step:4(a): গত
Repay loan ¢----'---p Pay creditor
Tk 461,938; Kr3,500,000
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 45০1

4.3; Setting:up'a money, market hedge for'a:foreign'currency receipt
A similar. technique can be used to cover a foreign currency receipt from.a debtor. To manufacture a forward
exchange rate, follow the:steps'below.

Step 1

Borrow an.appropriate amountéin the’forsign currency today
Step 2

Convert‘it'immediately to.home.currency

Step 3

Place it on-deposit in the home-currency.

Step 4

When. the-debtor's cash_is:received:

(a) Repay the.foreign currency Joan

(b) Take-the:cash:from.the home currency ‘deposit account

C SJ ; Interactive question'4: Money:market hedge: [Difficulty level:. Intermediate]

৷ দু A Bangladeshi company is owed SFr 2,500,000 to be paid ‘in 68101001591 time by a Swiss company. The spot:
exchange rate is SFr/Tk.2,2498 — 2.25.10: The-company can deposit-in: Taka for'three:months at 8.00%. per annum.
and can. borrow Swiss Francs for three months at 7.00% per: annum, What is the receipt in Taka. with a-money’
market hedge and what effective forward rate would this‘represent?

See Answer af the end of'this chapter.

When. a company expects. to. receive or pay a sum of foreign. currency in the next few months, it can, choose:
between using the. forward exchange market and the money market to hedge against the foreign exchange risk.
Other. methods may also be possible, such:as making lead payments. The cheapest.method available is-the 0116 0181
ought to be chosen.

[| Interactive question 5: Choosing the cheapest method.

' Trumpton Ltd ‘has bought goods from a US supplier, and must pay $4,000;000 in. three’ months’ time. The.
company's finance director wishes to hedge’ against the. foreign exchange risk, and. the. three methods’ which. the
company usually considers are:

০ ‘Using. forward exchange-contracts
০ ‘Using:money market borrowing or lending
e Making lead.payments
The following:annual interest.rates:and exchange rates are:currently-available.
US dollar Taka ;
Deposit rate Borrowing rate Deposit rate Borrowing fate.
% % % %
1. month 7 10.25 10.75 14.00
3 months 7 10.75 11.00 14.25
452} | ‘Financial Management

$/Tk exchange-rate ($:='Tk1)
Spot 1.8625— 1.8635
1. month forward 0.60c — 0:58¢ pm
3 months:forward 1.80c — 1:75¢ pm
Which is the.cheapest:method.for. Trumpton Ltd?
Forward Contract’
Money Market hedge
Lead.payment
See.Answer at the end of this chapter.
‘4.5 Comparison‘of hedging methods:
onward] Money Marte 11110011051
Tailored vo v x
Secondary market to * v v
‘unwind' hedge
Transaction:cost ‘Via spread Via-spreads on interest Brokerage’ fees
and:spot rate
Complexity Low Medium ‘High
Management costs Low ‘Medium High
Volume/popularity ‘Small/medium companies ‘Banks ‘Growing’especially for
companies with high
-exposure.
5: Currency options’ g
5 Currency options’ 5
A
wos Section.overview e
Less
1. ০ Options remove.downside:risk-but leave: upside potential. IE}
, e A premium-must.be.paid. R
® Options.are ised in situations where:theré.is uncertainty over'the future outcomes.
ae 70
5:1, Introduction
Currency options: protect: against adverse :movements:.in the ‘exchange: rate while allowing: the investor to take
advantage of favourable-exchange rate movements. .
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 453]

One shortcoming of forwards, futures and-monéy market.hedges is that:a binding-contract'to buy or sell currency is
being: entered ‘into, ‘This can be problematic in, situations where thé cash:'flow 18 -not certain ‘to occur ০৪ when
tendering for overseas contracts. Currency options are particularly useful:in this type of situation,

(A) Definition,

ALL Avcurrency:option’ is dn, agreement involving 8 right, but:not.an obligation, ‘to buy 0710 sell a certain amount of
currency 8638 stated rate of exchange (the exercise price) at sorme‘time:in the future.

As with other types of option, buying'a currency option-involves paying a-premium,, which is the ‘most. the buyer’

of the option can lose, Selling (or ‘writing’) options, unless covered by- other transactions, is risky because the seller

(‘writer’) bears the whole of the cost 01006 variation and.can face-potentially unlimited-losses. Such risks received

much. publicity with the Barings Bank failure in 1.995.

5:2, Currency option terminology,
Some terminology relating: to traded options"was' explained in the previous chapter‘in' the context of:options.to buy
and-sell. shares.-Much.of the same.terminology applies to currency’options..

5.3, Currency option quotations,

A company’ wishing’ to: purchase-an-option to buy‘or sell Sterling‘might-use over the counter currency options.from

its bank or'those traded:on the important-Philadelphia Stock Exchange. The schedule: of prices for-£/$ options is set:

০0011) tables. such as the:one shown below.

Philadelphia.SE £/$: options.£3 1,250 (cents per pound),

Cail Puts

toils pottss Ang Sep Ost Ang Sap
1.5750 2.58 3.13 = - 0.67 -
1.5800 2.14 2.77 3.24 - 0.81 132
1.5900 1.23: 2:17 2:64, 0.05: 1.06 1.71
1.6000 0.50. 1.61 2.16 0.32 1.50 2.18
1.6100 0.15 1.16 1.71 0.93 2.05 2.69
1.6200 — 0:81. 1.33 1:79 2.65 3.30

Note:the following points..,

(a) The contract:size.is £31,250.

(b) Ifa firm.wished.to. have the. option’to buy pounds (selling:dollars).in September, .it can buy a call option on.
Sterling. ‘To have the option to buy pounds:at:an exchange rate of $1.5800/£, it would:need.to:pay a premium.
of. 2.77 cents per pound. For a higher exchange-rate, the premium..is lower, since the.higher:exchange:rate-is
less favourable:to the buyer of: the option: more‘dollars are:needed to'buy the-same numberof pounds:

(০) A put option here isthe option to sell Sterling-in exchange for dollars. Note that.a put option with a strike
price:of 1.6000 $/£ exercisable in September:is,.at' 1.50 cents per pound, cheaper than 4 September-put option
exercisable at-1:6100 $/£, which is available at a premium, of 2.05 cents per pound. The: premium on put.
Options is higher for the higher exchange fate since the purchaser will receive more dollars for each pound
‘sold than-with:the lower’exchange rate,

(0) Nofe that: a call. option with a strike: price of 1.6000 $/£ exercisable in September will. cost more. than ‘an
option with. the same:strike price which is.exercisable in.August:, This difference reflects the fact’ that’for. the
‘September, option there is a.longer ‘period ‘until the exercise date and.consequently. the: likelihood of:it being
beneficial to exercise: the option.is increased (ie:it:is more.likely to:be-‘in.the money’ at.the-exercise date). ‘The

634 | ‘Financial Management

difference also reflects 006 market's: view of the direction in which the exchange: rate is likely to move
between the: two 08163.
The main.purpose of. currency options is to reduceexposure to adverse:currency‘movements, while:allowing the
holder to profit from favourable: currency‘movements: They-are particularly useful. for companies:in the:following
situations:
০ Where there .is uncertainty about: foreign currency 10001101307 payments, either in timing ‘or amount.
Should the foreign exchange*transaction not materialise, the option:can be sold on:the market (if it has.any
value) or exercised if-this‘ would.make a profit.
০ _—_ To allow the publication of price-lists for its goods in a.foreign currency.In this’situation, the company:would
not know whether, it had won any. export sales or: would have any foreign:currency income 30016 time that it
announces. its selling prices. It cannot. make a forward exchange contract to sell foreign ‘currency. without.
becoming exposed.in'the currency..
° 0০ protect the import or‘export‘of price-sensitive goods. If there is a favourable movement in.exchange rates,
options allow the importer/exporter to profit from the favourable change (unlike:forward exchange. contracts,
when, the importer/exporter ‘is tied to a fixed.rate: of exchange: by the binding: contract). This.means. that. the
gains can be passed ‘on«in the prices to the importer's-or exporter's:customers.
5.5. Comparison‘of currency: options with forward'contracts‘and futures'contracts’
Earlier in this-chapter, we, saw that'a hedge using a.currency future will produce ‘approximately, the:same result:as a.
currency forward contract, ‘subject to hedge inefficiencies. When comparing currency: options with. forward or
futures contracts we-usually:find the-following.
e ‘If the currency movement is.adverse, the.option-will be-exercised, butithe hedge will notinormally be quite as
good as thatof the forward or futures contract; this is because of the premium cost:of the option.
৩০. If. the currency movement ‘is favourable, the. option will. not be. exercised, and the result will normally be
better than that.of the*forward:or futures contract; this:is because the option allows the holder to profit from
the improved exchange‘rate.
These points'are illustrated by the:next series‘of examples.
(Cx a Worked example: Over-the-counter currency. options:
(e& Sugar 11038 expecting to receive 20 million South African rands (R) in one month’s time, The-current spot rate is
R/Tk 19,3383 — 19,3582. Compare the'results of the-following actions..
(a) The receipt is-hedged using a.forward contractiat the-rate 19.3048. .
(b) The receipt is.’hedged by buying an over-the-counter (OTC)-option from the bank, exercise price R/Tk: 19.30, C
premium cost-of Tk24,000.. [1
Ay
(c) The receipt is:not hedged. 1
In each case-compute the results if, in one-month, the:exchange,rate moves to: u
(a) R21.00/Tk. RR
(b) R17.60/Tk

The target-receiptat today's spot:tate-is 20,000,000/19.3582 = Tk1 ,033,154.. ”
(a) The receipt using a forward contract,is fixed with.certainty at*20,000,000/19:3048 =Tk1 ,036,012..
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 45০০1

This applies‘to ৮001.6%003118271806 scenarios.
(b) The cost:of the option is,Tk24,000: This must be paid.at'the start-of the contract.
The results under the two scenarios are-as follows.
Scenario (a) (b)
Amount received at exchange rate R.20. million. @ R21.0/Tk.= Tk952;381 @17.60:= Tk1,136;364
Amount:received.at-exercise price R 20-million @ R19:30/Tk=Tk1,036,269 ‘@ 1930'=:Tk1,036,269
Does: the company exercise the option?, YES NO
(a). (b)
Taka received 1,036,269 1,136,364
Less‘option premium (24,000). (24,000).
Netireceipt: 1,012,269 1,112,364
(c) The results ofnot,hedging under the-two scenarios:are as follows.
Scenario, (8) (8)
Exchange rate 21.00 ‘17.60
Taka.teceived Tk952,381. Tk1,136,364
Summary.:The option gives a:result between. that of the:forward:contract and no hedge:.
~—*Tf. ‘the South. African. rand. weakens to 21.00; the best ‘result would have: been obtained using the forward
market.(Tk 1,036,012).
০ If-it strengthens:to 17.60, the best course of action-would have. been.to.take:no hedge (Tk1,136;364).
‘8 In both cases the. option. gives the second best result, being Tk24,000 below the best.because.of its premium.
cost.
G Worked’example: Traded currency options:
Prices.(premiums) on |. June:for ‘Sterling traded currency:options:on the Philadelphia Stock:Exchange-are shown in,
the:following table.
Sterling £31,250 contracts’ (cents'per £).
Exercise price, Calls, Puts.
HE September December September December
1.5000 5:55 7:95 0.42 1.95
1.5500 2.75 3:85 ALS 6.30
1.6000 0:25. 1:00, ‘9:40 11.20:
Prices:are quoted in:cents per:£..
On 1 June, the current:spot.exchange rate is $1.5404 — $1.5425 and September, futures are: quoted. at $1.54 with.a
standard contract:size of £62,500.
Stark Inc, a US: company, is due to receive £3.75 million from a debtor in four ‘months’ time: at: the end of
September. ‘The treasurer decides to hedge this: receipt using either September '£. traded options or September
futures.
Requirement
Compare‘the results of‘using:an option to hedge with a:futures' contract.
Illustrate the results with-an option exercise price of '$1.55:if by the-end of September the spot exchange rate moyes
to.(i) $1.48003 (01) $1.5700,
456) | ‘Financial Management

Assume that at the end of September the quote for September futures is‘the same:as'the spot-exchange rate.
The target:receipt:is 3,750,000 x 1.5404* = $5,776,500.
*The.American:company gets the lower:number of:dollars for selling:Sterling.
A receipt-of £3.75 million will require £3;750,000/£31 ;250 = 120 option contracts.
Using ‘options, the treasurer‘will-purchase. 120 September. put options: (ie needs to sell £ asthe underlying: option is.
in £ s). The premium cost.will vary with.the exercise price as follows.
Exercise'price Cost:é
1.5000 120: 0,42/100 x 31,250 = $15;750
1.5500 120: 415/100 x 31,250 = $155,625.
1.6000 120: 9.40/100 x 31,250 = $352,500
Assuming.an exercise price of 1.55 is:chosen, the cost‘of the premium.on 1 June‘is $155,625.
Impact of options
Scenario (i) (ii)
Prevailing exchange‘rate. ($/£) in ‘September. 1.48: 1:57
Have right to-sell. Sterling for, 1.55: 1.55
Intrinsic value of option ($:per £) 0:07 Zero
Exercise? Yes No
Value of.options: $0.07 x £31,250 ='$2, 187.50 ‘per contract
No.-of contracts 120 ©
Gain on. option $262,500
Value of Sterling‘receipt-at prevailing*exchange rate (£3:75m): $5,550,000 $5,887,500
Gain on.option , $262,500
Less: premium $(155,625) $(155,625)
$5,656,875 $5,731,875
Impact of futures
; £3.75 million
The company ‘will-want to sell —~.-—.~—_ = 60 ‘contracts:
pany £62,500
The hedge ‘position will be. to sell the September ‘futures at $1.54 on ‘1. June, and then close out. at ‘the end of
September.
Scenario (i) (1)
Closing futures price (1.48) (1.57)
Sold.futures.at 154, 1.54 |
Gain/(108s).on ‘future $0.06/£ $(0.03 VE
%: £62,500 x £62:500
x60 contracts x 60 contracts .
Overall futiires position = $225,000 $(1.12,500)
Value of Sterling:receipt:at prevailing’exchange rate ‘$5,550,000 $5,887,500: C
(£3.75m) টু , রত [||
$5,775,000 $5,775,000 A
The effect of the:future is 10 give-a fixed. exchange:rate.. This‘is slightly-different from the.target receipt because of P
basis risk. v
Ee
Summary R
The future gives a fixed exchange‘rate whereas the option removes the:downside risk. leaving. the upside potential.
Unfortunately, the option premium ig So expensive that the:receipt under the.future is more attractive. This. does es
depend of cotirse, on which option is chosen.and what. the closing exchange-rate turns out to be. 10)
5.6 Thedrawbacks of currency options:
The major drawbacks of:currency options are-as‘follows.
Managing financial.risk: overseas'trade | OS

০ =: The cost:is about-5% of the total amount.of foreign exchange covered, although the exact.amount depends
on the-expected ‘volatility :of the:exchange rate and the, particular, option:chosen.
2 Options must be paid for’as soon as:they-are bought.
০ Tailor-made 000011513011162003 01110
© Traded options are‘not available in every‘currency.
6 Hedging economic and.:translation.exposure:
Z| Section overview
eed © Economiciexposure can be hedged. by matching assets and liabilities and diversification.
© Translation exposure, the risk of apparent losses.appéaring When, accounting:results are-translated, probably’
does. notineed to be hedged..
6.1, Economic exposure:
[4] Definition:
[| Economic: exposure: is: the risk; that longer-term: exchange rate movements: might reduce the international,
“—-— competitiveness of a company.

Tt:ts:the risk-that'the present value: of a:company's future cash flows. might be reduced by ‘adverse exchange ‘rate
movements..,
Overseas:subsidiary:
Suppose-a Bangladeshi company’invests:in setting-up a subsidiary-in Eastern Europe. The currency of the Eastern
European country:depreciates ‘continuously over. a five ‘year'period. The: cash flows remitted back to. Bangladesh.
are:worth less in Taka terms.each year, causing a,reduction.in the value‘of the investment. project.
Importer-exporter:
Another. Bangladeshi company buys raw ‘materials that: are priced in US dollars.. 10 converts these materials ‘into
finished. products that it exports mainly. to Spain. Over a period of several years, the pound depreciates against’ the
dollar but strengthens:against the euro. The. Taka-value:of the:company's.income.declines while the-Taka cost ofits:
materials:increases, resulting:in a drop-in the value of the:company’'s cash flows.
The ‘value. of a company depends on the: present’ value of its expected. future cash. flows. If there are fears ‘that.a
companyis exposed to the sort.of exchange.rate:movements described above, this: may reduce’the company’s value.
Protecting against economic?exposure.is therefore necessary to'protect the company's share price.
Domestic producers:
A company néed not eyen.engage in.any ‘foreign Aactivities.to be ‘subject to economic exposure: For example, if a.
company trades only’in Bangladesh but, Taka. strengthens appreciably against other world currencies, it may find
that it loses Bangladesh sales to a:foreign competitor who can‘now’afford to charge cheaper Taka prices.

6.2: Economic’exposure’and:inflation
None ‘of these examples ‘are as simple as they seem, however, because of the: compensating actions. of ‘economic
forces: For.example, if the exchange:rate: of :an Eastern European country depreciates ‘significantly, it is probably.
because ofits high inflation.rate.
So if the Eastern European subsidiary of a Bangladeshi company increases its prices in line’ with inflation, its cash,
flows. in the local currency’will increase each year. However under purchasing. power parity the currency ‘will.
depreciate. The cash flows. will therefore, be. converted at: the depreciating exchange’ rate to produce. a. fairly
constant Taka. value, of cash flows. Alternatively, if the subsidiary does not increase its prices, it may. increase its
sales volume by’selling-at:more competitive: prices.

458} | ‘Financial Management

Worked‘example:. Economic forces
A Bangladeshi company. has an overseas US:subsidiary which.remits all $ cashflows back:to the Bangladesh.
Consider a situation in which inflation rates in the US are:higher than in Bangladesh,eg’5% and.3% respectively..
Assuming.a spot-rate of $1:80/Tk:illustrate. what would. happen if the
(a) US subsidiary did not:increase prices in year 1
(b) US subsidiary increased prices. byinflation-in ‘year 2.
Solution:
Year | Year 2.
$ cash flow 100 100 105
Exch $1.80 1:05 $1.83 1.05 $1.87
xchange rate ১্1.৩0 ন্ল্ঢ “bl. 7nd 1.8
হা “es এ 1.03 = x 1.03 2
Tk cash flows ‘55.56. 54.50 56.13
Economic: exposure’ ig, illustrated, in. year 1. The effect. of higher US ‘inflation, causes the. dollar to -weaken and
therefore: Taka-remittances. fall.,
In. year 2; the increase: in the: US prices: of 5% more ‘than. compensates for the decline in the currency (being:
approximately 2%) resulting in the. Taka:remittance. going up by'3% (the Bangladesh:rate:of-inflation):
Thus the effects of economic exposure may be seduced, by changes in prices, which mean the real exchange ‘rate:
changes little:if at all. However there may. be timing differences involved and.if exchange-rate: movements, are very
large, the business mightisuffer for a while before compensating economic forces take effect:
Tt:can be.difficult to hedge against:economic exposure in.the, short term; only:in the longer term, where sales prices
and.:resource. costs-can change, and strategy developed, can. steps: be:taken..,
e _ Diversifying operations world-wide
On the principle that companies which confine: themselves to one country suffer from. economic exposure,
international ‘diversification is a method_of.reducing risk. Companies may look:to diversify-any. or‘all/of sales,
production, raw material supplies:and finance sources across‘different countries.
e Market.and promotional management.
Having taken the decision to diversify, the company must:then carefully decidé,in which:markets;to operate.
This decision will link. in, with Strategic. objectives, and weigh, the economic ‘éxposuré against the earnings
that the market is-reckoneéd to be able-to generate.
০. Product:management
High. levels.of economic exposure may. mean. high-risk product: decisions, particularly the decision:to: launch r
new products, are:not.taken. ডে
০ Pricing ট্য)
না A
Again pricing strategy must:respond tothe risk- of fluctuations in exchange rates, but. this:must:also tie in with P
other. objectives; reducing prices may :maintain. market share ‘but, may: result in. a reduction in, distributable v
profits., Changing:prices.to combat-exchange rate movements:may.also, cause Complications in.the company’s B
own local markets, particularly if'competitors Tespond, R
° Production management
As indicated above, levels of.economic exposure.may ‘influence supply and location of production decisions. গত
Complications.can.arise when changing the:mix.of. inputs; this may reduce.economic exposure. but there may.
be costs:involved in.becoming more“flexible. However, it will be much.easier to’ shift production to: countries
with-falling exchange rates and:lower relative*production costs if the company already. has facilities in these:
places and itis. feasible.to’shift production to them.. ,
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | &D

‘6:4| Translation‘exposure:

[SA] Definition:

07. Translation exposure: isthe risk that:the organisation will:make. exchange.losses when the accounting:results of.

" = its foreign'branches.or subsidiaries are‘translated into the home,currency.
Translation losses ‘can result, for example, from :restating the book value: of a foreign subsidiary's assets at: the
exchange 106. on the balance sheet date. ‘Such losses ‘will not have an impact: on the firm's ‘cash flow: unless: the:
assets are sold.
Does it matter?
There are opposing: arguments as. to whether translation exposure: is important: The arguments ‘centre on. whether
the:reporting of. a.translation gain or loss-will-affect.the company's share price. There.is a powerful argument that,
to the extent that cash flows are not affected, translation exposure:can be ignored. On the other hand, those who
believe that accounting results are an.important.determinant of share«price argue: that translation losses should be
reduced to a:minimum.

‘6.5. Overseas trade = trading risks
Both importers and exporters will :face trading risks which are. greater than those faced by domestic traders asa
consequence of. political,and cultural risk as: well as the increased. distances and times ‘involved. ‘Types of. trading
risk-include:
০ Physical risk —‘the risk of goods. being Jost or stolen in transit, Or the documents accompanying the goods
going astray.
° §=>- Credit_risk-— the possibility of payment:default:by the:customer
e Trade risk — the risk of ‘the customer refusing to accept: the goods on delivery (due to sub-
standard/inappropriate goods), or'the:cancellation:of the order in transit
° Liquidity risk — ‘the inability to finance-the credit-given to.customers
Such. risks may be: reduced with the help of banks, insurance companies, credit..reference agencies and
government agencies.
Other, ways to:réduce these risks include tisk transfer. A, business shipping parcels overseas may agree a contract.
Obligating ‘the courier to pay for losses-in excess of its statutory’liability.
460 | ‘Financial Management

১৮1111113170431701১0130031 |
iBRiskstofioverseasitrade)
[মামীর , (Currency, irrencys )'
accounting snesultsq Fandiliabilitiestand}
Rdiversification}
bymatching |
{@passetsrand| liabilities | দারা
See Invoicing inzowny = (whe
7 (OM forward] ১, 1১০০০ | ডে
পে | 03000690036. টন)
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 0061

Answer. the following:questions.

1 A Bangladeshi. importer has. signed an. agreement to pay'a Swiss exporting company SwEr 40,000 iin three
months’ time.

Which of the:following transactions-can best eliminate the importer's exchange rate:tisk?

A Agree to buy-SwFr.for, Taka in three months" time 80016 spot-rate prevailing in.three months
B__ .Agree to sell SwEr for Taka.in three.months' time-at today's three-month. forward.rate

C ‘Borrow Taka.now, convert:to SwFr at today's spot:rate, and invest in Switzerland

D Borrow SwFr:now,.convert'to Taka at today's'rate,, and invest in.Bangladesh.

2 A Bangladeshi company has despatched a shipment of goods to Sweden, The sale’ will be invoiced in.
Swedish.Kroner. and payment is to be’ made in, three months' time, .Neither the Bangladeshi exporter nor the
Swedish.importer uses the forward ‘foreign exchange market to cover exchange risk.

If the Taka were: to weaken substantially againstthe Swedish: Kroner, what would be the foreign exchange
gain or loss effects upon the Bangladeshi exporter and the Swedish importer?

3 A Bangladeshi company sells:goods to a US: customer and expects to receive payment:of $400,000-in three
months' time.

Which of the:following will best hedge the company's.exchange risk?

A. ‘Use'the forward exchange market to sell $400,000 for. Taka at the three-month. forward. rate
‘B 09206 forward exchange:market to’ buy $400,000 for Tk at the three-month.forward rate
C Buy $400,000 now at the’prevailing spot'rate

D Sell $400,000 int three monthis' time at the prevailirig-spot rate:

4 Which of the following is the best strategy: for:a ‘Bangladeshi company. which, will. receive: US dollars .in the:
future. and desires to avoid. exchange. rate risk (assuming: that, the company has no. off-setting purchase-
position‘in US dollars)?

A ‘Purchase a.put option:on Taka
B_ _ Sell:a put:option‘on US dollars
C ‘Buy-a-futures.contract on Taka
D ০৮0 a forward.contract:to‘purchase.US dollars.forward.

5$ The following:information relates to the Taka/euro spot.and forward currency rates,
One month forward '0.02:—.0.01 S:euro premium
What,would be the value in Taka.of.selling 10,000 euro one.month forward?

6 Acompany invests Tk500,000-for one:;month.in US dollar bonds. When.the.investment:is made the treasurer.
will contract to.convert:the dollar-investment back to Taka.. The following data.are available.
US dollar bond rate 1%:per‘month

‘Bank buys' US dollars
Spot $1.873.1
One month premium 0.35 cents
462} | ‘Financial Management

Bank sells US:déllars
Spot $1871
One ‘month premium 0.37 cents
How much:Taka will be:received.in‘one month's time?

7 Simpleton sells: goods ‘to a US customer. for $200,000, receivable :in. two months’ time. Exchange. rates are

given below.

Spot $1,7620 — 1.7680

Two months forward 0,40:—0.35 cents pm

If Simpleton.enters into-a forward:contract to sell $200,000:in two months’ time, what;will he-teceive?

8 If. the current, spot ‘exchange: price: for euros against. Taka is €1.5954.— 1.5974/Tk and if the one month
forward rate is 1.5 -0:5 cents premium (there are. 100‘cents in.1 euro), what:would be the:rate:that:would be
agreed-now for buying’euros in one month's:time?

9 The following are the currency’rates for'Taka-spot and-forward against the Buyland franc.

Spot ‘Three months forward
49.30 — 49.55 35 — 30 c'premium
There are.100 cents.in.1 Buyland franc.
What is the estimated value ০03 million Buyland francs when sold to:a bank three months. forward?

10. A company ‘has. just sold.a computerised manufacturing system to‘a Japanese car maker for:4,680 million yen
receivable in. three ‘months’ time.. The company does not wish to bear the risk of fluctuating exchange -rates
‘and 'therefore:intends to. hedge the transaction:on the forward exchange: market at thé following ‘rates.

Spot 234.46 —234.78 yen/Tk:
Three months forward 2.72:— 2.56 yen premium
What-amount.of Taka will be:received-in three, months"time?

11. A company invests Tk500,000 for one:month.in’US dollar bonds.’When the-investment.is made the:treasurer
will contract:to convert the-dollar‘investment back, to. Taka. The following data:are available: US dollar bond.
rate is, 1% per. month.

Bank‘buys. US dollars: Bank sells US dollars:
Spot $1.8731 Spot. $1.8711
1 month premium 0.35 cents 1 month premium: 0.33-cénts
What'is the interest received?

12. Mogs Ltd hias recently purchased goods. from Cantona, a.Frenchcompany.
‘Mogs. Ltd was invoiced in Taka.and payment for the:goods was made.after'thirty days. During:this period, the ও
Taka.strengthened against.the-euro. A
Neither party-to the transaction hedged.against exchange-rate risk. PY
What.was the:effect (gain/loss/no:effect) of the change in exchange.rates for‘Mogs Ltd and for'Cantona? u

13 ‘Boris. Ltd has: agreed. to purchase goods ‘worth, 10 :million, levs ‘from. a Bulgarian supplier.. Payment for the: R
goods'is due:in:two months' time.

Which one of the:following can.be used.to hedge:against exchange:rate-risk? =
A ‘Buya put.option on.Bulgarian levs 0
B- Buy acall option on Bulgarian-levs
C ‘Use:a money:market hedge by. borrowing Bulgarian levs now
7 Enter‘into a:forward:contract to sell Bulgarian.levs .
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 0631

14 Arold ‘Ltd is expecting to pay $500,000 in four months’ time:to a US customer. To hedge against: currency
risk, the:company.enters into 8 forward exchange contract with a bank:to buy $500,000 in four:months' time.
Exchange rates:aré:
$/Tk spot 1.9015 -1.9055
4-months forward $0.0030-—.0.0025 premium
What Taka. amount:will, be: paid by Arold Ltd in.four:months' time.(to the.nearest Tk)?

15 The US dollar/Taka spot rate is:$1.52 = Tk!

One year, US interest rates'= 8%:
Qne year Bangladesh interest:rates = 14%
What.should the one*year forward exchange rate:between the:dollar-and’Taka be?

16. Shakes Ltd must:pay‘a Gridland supplier 35:000 Gridland francs: in one month's ‘time. Given the: following,
exchange rates being quoted by the-company’s bank, what would be-the cost of the payment in. Taka if. the
company were‘to:arrange‘a one.month.forward exchange contract?

Francs — Tk.rates:
Spot 9.22 1/4 - 9:23 1/4
‘| month forward:4: 1/2 c:dis— 4 3/4-¢ dis

17 The current US dollar/Taka spot rate:is $1.50 to Tk1, and the.dollar‘is at a premium:against Taka.for forward
exchange contracts..

What. would happen to the spot rate and forward rates:if interest-rates went up in Bangladesh.on Taka but-not
in the USA on the.dollar?

18 Plane Tiff Ltd has just purchased goods’ from Sweden costing 200,000 Swedish, krona. It is now 1 April-and
the supplier must be: paid on 15 June. Plane Tiff Ltd's finance director wishes to hedge ‘against foreign
currency: transaction-exposure, Exchangeirate details are:

On 1 April. 9.90
2.:months.forward 1% ore*pm

7 3:months, forward 1% ore: pm

On 15 June 9.92.

(Note: thefé:are 100-ore pef’krona)

How much would. Plane: Tiff Ltd pay on ‘15 June to obtain. the Swedish, currency that it requires, on the

assumption that. measures were taken on | April-to,hedgé against the-currency exposure?

19 Witneys Ltd ‘has, efitered a:transaction that will involve a yen payment-exposure arising in six:moriths’ time.
The company's treasurer decides to-cover the exposure by means of foreign currency options, and,buys a:six-
month yen,call/Taka put option.

Forward.exchange rate 24039 = Tk

Option strike price 240:yen = Tk

Option premium. 1.2%

What:is the: worst case exchange rate‘that the company'will.have to pay, and’what-would it.do.in six-months’
time:if. the spot.rate is:245 yen:= Tk1.?

20° On 12 July,.the following:figures are quoted.,

Taka futures::contract size Tk62,500: price:in $ 021 Tk

12-July price

Sep 1.5552

Dec 1.5556

Mar, 1.5564

(a) ‘Your company, based. in Bangladesh, will receive. US. $2,000,000 01113 December, How should you
hedge the receipt using futures? Assume that. 6n,13 December the spot rate is quoted, at 1.6502 and
‘there is no basis risk:.

৫0 | ‘Financial Management

(b) Starburst: Ltd,.a Bangladeshi company, expects to pay $5 million in eight months’ time. How can it
hedge.this payment on the'futurés market? It.is currently 12 July and the data in the-above-table applies.
Assume ‘that.in.8 months’ time’ the spotirate is quoted.at-1.5504 and there'is no basis risk.
21 XYZ'Ltd’has various-long term,investments-in the USA.
An extract-from its balance:sheet.at;31 December.20X.1 is as follows. The exchange-rate at that-datée was
Tk'000
Bangladesh assets, 6,000
Overseas assets: $18 million. @ $1.80/Tk:= 10,000
16,000
‘Bangladesh loan (11,000)
Net assets 5,000
(a) Illustrate the impact on'the company's gearing iftthé exchange.rate:moved to $2,00/Tk:
(b) Explain how.any increase-in gearing caused by exchange-rate changes could be hedged by XYZ.Ltd,
22 Milligan, a, Bangladeshi company whichtrades frequently with the USA, has @ net payment in three months"
time of $25 million to make.
Market traded option, prices (Tk31,250 contract size) in the USA. are as follows. (The options relate to the
purchase or sale of Taka.)
June contracts September contracts
Exercise:price ($/Tk) Calls Puts Calls Puts:
2.00 0.56 1.20 1.01 1.57
2.02 0,17 2.65 0.48 3,45
Option premia.are in cents:per Taka‘and are payable up front. The options are.American style. Assume that it.
‘is now 1 June and the:current spot.rate is $1.97/Tk.
(a) How many options contracts should Milligan. enter into to hedge the transaction given, assuming .a
strike:price.of $2.00/Tk:is chosen?
(b) Should Milligan enter into putor. call options?
(c) Which date options should ‘Milligan enter, into?
(৫) What:will be the cost, expressed'to the nearest dollar, of the premium.to obtain the required numberof
contracts. to hedge.the transaction 308 rate-of $2/Tk?
(e) Assuming’ a strike price of $2, :illustrate-the impact. of an options. hedge assuming spot rates ‘in three
months of. either
0) °$1.98/Tk
(01). '$2:02/Tk
23 RUTINILLTD ৪
Rutini Ltd is a small manufacturing company which has recently:completed.a.major contract in Europe, as 4 FA}
result of. which..it will receive €5 :million cin three months’ time: Its directors are worried ‘that the. euro will A
weaken. relative. to: Taka,, and hence. affect the company's: cash. flow. Four possible approaches have been 7
suggested to deal‘with the foreign.currency exposure. v
0) Do‘nothing now.and convert the-€5:million at the spot rate‘prevailing:in three months"time R
(2) Use the forward:marketito sell €5 million.for Tks at today's three-month forward rate
(3) Buy today:a three-month €5: million. put:option. at a strike price, equal to-the three-month forward rate. 1.0)
The option will cost Tk125;000,,which will be paid from the company's surplus-cash Currently:in a bank:
deposit account;
(4) ‘Use the:money market.to.cover the position. ,
The following:relevant information.has been collected.
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | “46 5}

0 ‘The:spot rate:is Tk1/€1,.5575 - 1:5625

(di), ‘The'thrée-month forward premium is:€0.0047 = 0.0015

Gili) The current:bank interest rates per annum are

Eurozone Bangladesh.

Prime-lending-rate 3.2% 4.0%

Three-month deposit rate 2.8% 3.6%

Requirement:

Calculate the effects of: each of the four approaches, assuming that the spot rate’ prevailing in three months"

time.is Tk1/€1.5O’and Tk1/€1.70. (11 marks)

24. POTION.LTD

Potion.Ltd-has-recently negotiated.a-contract with an American.customer, Harding Inc. Under the terms:of the

contract‘Harding Inc. will pay to Potion Ltd $1.5m in three months’ time.

00011170713 alittle nervous that-Harding Inc‘may not complete.the deal. As a:consequence it wishes to cover’

itself:for this eventuality by adopting some form of risk:reduction,

Two .methods being discussed by management area forward exchange contract anda foreign currency

option.

Requirement.

Describe why ‘under: the. :dbove: circumstances the currency option is likely to: be: preferred to a forward

exchange ‘contract. (Your answer:should consider, the. variety of possible circumstances, that may arise with.

regard to the:contract-and future exchange rates:) (12 marks)
25 STORACE LTD

Storace:Ltd has recently finalised.a contract with 8 US company, Jacquin Inc, forthe supply 01 a. machine.

The selling price.is Tk100,000. As this is’the first export sale made by Storace Ltd, the currency settlement:

details. were ‘not discussed, at the meeting when the: sale of the machine was ‘agreed. The, management of

Storace: Ltd believe that Jacquin Inc will agree to whatever currency. ‘settlement is suggested, since Jacquin

Inc is: very anxious that the:machine contract be ‘completed-quickly. Delivery of the machine will’take place

in.three:months' time when the:account will be settled immediately by Jacquin Tnc.

The. management of Storace Ltd are considering three possible methods of invoicing Jacquin Inc for the

machine.

(1) Prepare the invoice'in Taka (ie Tk100,000) and request payment in Taka.on the settlement date.

(2) Convert'the Taka price.at‘the current Taka/dollar' spot rate and invoice Jacquin, Inc in, dollars..Buy Taka,
at the-spot rate-in‘thtee months’ time’ when the dollar settlement is:made by. Jacquin Inc.

(3) Invoice. Jacquin.Inc in dollars, converting the Taka price at the spot rate (as in(b)). Storace ‘Ltd will,
then immediately cover‘the position in. the forward, exchange ‘market by. selling the dollars receivable
forward at the:three-month.forward exchange rate.

The current spot rate between, Taka and dollars in London is Tk1 =,$1.1.1. The premium.for, the dollar for

three: month, forward, exchange: contracts is. quoted as 1-20, - 1.15 cents (the: buying/selling range). The

management of Storace Ltd believe that-the Taka/dollar spot-rate-will be somewhere in the-range Tk] = $1.20
to.Tk1 =:$1.09 in three months' time.

Requirements

(a) Calculate the:amount:of Taka to be received by Storace:Ltd under each. of the three methods. (4 marks)

(b) Prepare a‘report to the management. of Storace Ltd which sets out the-advantages and disadvantages of
‘each:method, and. which.contains your‘recommendation as.to.choice.of method.. (12 marks)

(©) What are'the implications:for financial management of undertaking.a major export sales drive?(4 marks)

Note: Ignoré taxation. (20 marks).

4601 | ‘Financial Management

26. WHARTON.LTD
Wharton Ltd (Wharton),is a.manufacturer of men's.clothing, which it;sélls'to.a wide range of:customers in the:
retail séctor. Based:in Dhaka, Wharton sources its raw materials from.a large number. of suppliers both in the
Bangladesh and overseas, and ‘has, a policy of extracting «as much credit as possible’ from these suppliers.
Annual demand for Wharton's products.is relatively stable, although there-can 86 some-unpredictability as to
when, durifig ‘the yéar this: deniand arises.
CG
FA}
A
[7
v
[হু
R
a
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 467)

Historically, Wharton‘has:sold only to customers within.Bangladesh. However, ‘on 3:1. May’20X1 it:completed
negotiations on a contract with:a US' company under which. it will. ship-a consignment. of goods to.the US on
1 July 20X1. It:is considering whether, or not to hedge: the foreign ‘currency exposure arising. from this sale
and, if so, whether-a:forward.contract:or an option contract. would be:more appropriate.
The variable cost of the goods to be shipped is Tk1.5m while: the contractually agreed. selling: price is $2.7
million, to ‘be received on 31. August 20X1. As at 31 May 20X1 the $/Tk:spot exchange rate was $1.50/Tk,
while:thé three-rionth $/Tk forward éxchange rate was $1.4956/TR.
$ put/Tk call. options with a maturity date of 31 August:20X1 are’ available with a range of exercise. prices,
including $1.50/Tk.and $1.55/Tk.
‘Requirements
(a) Briefly outline the advantages and disadvantages of trade Credit’ as a source: of finance.
(3 marks)
(b) If 'the $/Tk spot exchange: rate on 31 August: 20X'1 is $1.53/Tk, calculate the contribution (ie ‘sales
proceeds less variable costs) from‘the sale‘under each of the following two-scenarios.
(0) ‘No hedging
(ii) Hedging‘using a forward contract. (2 marks)
(c) If the-$/Tk spot exchange rate on 31 August 20X1 is $1:53/Tk and. Wharton had' chosen to hedge using.
an.option, explain with reasons whether the option:should be exercised.if it had‘an,exercise price of
(ii), ‘$1.55/Tk. (2 marks)
(d) Briefly discuss: the factors which. Wharton should take into account. when deciding whether or not to
hedge.. (2 marks)
(6) Indicate-the relative advantages. and disadvantages of the-two option contracts and the forward contract
available to. Wharton. (2 marks)
(11 marks)
27 POTEN'LTD
Poten.Ltd has ‘won.a large export order'to-supply electrical components to an, Eastern Européan-manufacturer.
The finance director,is concerned since‘this is the.first export contract for the:company. Here is 4 summary of
his issues:
(a) What:are the.risks here? T-don't.mean currency:risks..[-:mean.everything:else. (3 marks)
(b) _ Is it true that everyone exporting must take:out export credit:insurance? (2 marks)
(c) Ive heard of. something-called a.documentary credit, what are these’ exactly, and do they’°mean-we-have
to wait until the end of the period of credit ‘before’ receiving payment?
(2 marks)
(0) ITsaw a website advertising the services of a-factor. What is the significance of a factor purchasing bills.
without:recourse? (2 marks)
(e) The samé website-referred to bills of’ exchange. How could these help, and-what:is meant by ‘avalising"
bills of exchange? (2 marks)
Requirements
Briefly discuss each, of-the issues outlined above: (11 marks)
468 | ‘Financial Management

28 JETAIR LTD

The finance director of JetAir Ltd, a rapidly expanding short haul airline company based in. Bangladesh,

operating ‘across the sub-continent, ‘is ‘considering how to hedge: sales:revenues of 60m 10062, which ‘are due

to.be-received in

180 days. The company has been, quoted the following exchange and interest:rates by One: of its télationship

banks:

Spot:rate (rupee/Tk). 1.5642 — 1.5669

180 day forward rate (rupee/Tk) 1.5808 — 1.5830

Rupee interest rate’ 5:% per-annum.

Taka interest rate ‘4% per‘annum.

A foreign currency-dealer, at.the:relationship bank has also provided an estimate.for, the finance director of the

rupee/Tk spot:rate in. 180:days. This estimate is 1.5622 - 1.5649. ‘The bank:is also quoting the following: 180

day currency option.strike prices,each with an option premium of Tk20,000:

© — .A.put option on 60m rupees ‘at.an exercise-price (rupee/Tk) of 1.5700

০ Acall option on:60m_ rupees ৪0811 exercise price (rupee/Tk) of 1.5650

Requirements

(a) Calculate: the hedged’ value of the 00070311715: 10096 receivables and, explain, with reasons, which.
hedging:strategy‘is preferable, if:it.decides to:
(i) “Usera forward market.hedge to manage’‘its foreign currency exposure;
(ii), Use.a money market:hedge:to:manage its foreign currency exposure.. (7 marks)

(b) Given-the estimated spotirate:provided by the‘foreign currency dealer, discuss, with reasons:
(i) | Whethier'the company ’should hedge the receipt of its rupee:receivables in this-situation; and
01) Your, opinion on the. ability of forecasters.to:outperform the:forward market: (4 marks)

(c) Explain to the finance director how: a currency option contract might be used to,hedge the company's
rupee receivables exposure-in.this situation_and advise, him of what.action:to take, having purchased. the
appropriate currency option, if in 180 days the-spot.rate for :rupee/Tk is:
(i) In line. with forward market expectations;
(ii), In-line with.the:foreign currency dealer's estimate. (6 marks)

(d) Advise the finance: director of the: implications for ‘financial management ‘of the key financial ‘risks
arising from the company's:recent:rapid expansion into the sub-continent market.(8 marks)

(25 marks)
Note:-Assume there are:360 days in.a year
29 TAWTORR INTERNATIONAL.PLC ——

(a) TawToit International Ltd (TawToit)-is.a large UK-based engineering. company and the majority of its C
sales are made in. Europe and North, America. The company’s suppliers ate mostly British, but one, FA}
Grupo MBV (MBV), is based in Spain and invoices TawTorr in euro. A, contract worth, €3.1 ‘million, A
‘was agreed with MBV on 29 February 20X2. The ‘value of. Sterling has. been, volatile: in ‘the past six, P
‘ifionths and has depreciated against'the euro by almost 5% since August'20X1. Because of this and the: v
scale-of this transaction, TawTorr’s board is.keen to investigate how the €3.1 million payment:might'be Ee}
hedged in order to: reduce the:risk:from adverse:movements in the Sterling/euro exchange rate, The €3.1 IR
‘million is:due to be paid by TawTorr on 31. May 20X2 and you have been-asked to provide:information
forthe board. —
‘You should assume:that the current date is 29 February 20X2. +10)

Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 0469.

Following discussions with TawTorr’s bank you have collated the:following data?
Spot:rate (E/£) 1,145 — 1.150
Over-the-counter (OTC) option on €3.1 million
Put (€/£) 1.160
7 Call (€/£), _ 1155
OTC.option premium payable £30,000
Sterling interest rate:(lending) 4.2% pa
Sterling interest rate (borrowing) 4.8% pa
Eliro intétest rate-(lending) 6.9% pa
Euro interest rate’ (borrowing) 7:8% pa
Forward.rate at 31, May'20X2 €0.008 — €0.010 discount
Cost:of forward contract £5,000
Requirements
(i) Calculate the impact on, TawTorr’s Sterling payment to MBV of. 42.5% change-in the.spot value
of Sterling against the euro (both strengthening ‘and. weakening) over the next thrée months.(3.marks)
(ii Calculate-the Sterlirig payment that would be made on 31 May:20X2 if TawTort made use of:
e An OTC currency option,
ও .A<money market hedge
০ —_A forward. contract (7 marks)
Gii) Taking into account your calculations:in parts (i) and (ii) above, discuss’ the issues. that:should be
taken, account of by TawTorr’s board when considering whether it should hedge the payment to
MBV. (6 marks)
(b) Over the past five years TawTorr has also been investing in large company‘BANGLADESH shares and
at 29 February 20X2:had.a portfolio worth £3.6 million. ‘The spot-value. of the FT'SE100 index. on, that:
date.is 4,800. TawTorr’s.finance team is considering the use of'traded FTSE100 index.options to protect
the current value-of 00270010110 in anticipation.of share prices falling over the:next. three months. The
team has collected the:following information.from,Euronext:Liffe:
ETSE 100 INDEX OPTION (£10 per full index point)
Exercise 4750 4800 4850 4900 4950
price. ;
Call ‘Put. Eall Put Call Put Call Put Call, Put
March’20X2 148 42 112. 59 83 78 57 108 43 142
‘May 20X2 285 144 254 165 230 189 199 210 175 234
Requirement’
Explain, with supporting, calculations, ‘the outcome of hedging using FTSE100 index options.if on 31.
‘May 20X2;
(i) The-portfolio value falls to £3.45 million. and thé FTSE100:index’falls. to-4,600,
(ii) The-portfolio value rises to-£3.675 million and the FTSE100:index:niges to 4,900.
(7 marks)
(23 marks).
30 DEEP DRILL SUPPLIES LTD
Deep Drill Supplies Ltd (DDS) is a Bangladeshi company which manufactures and. sells large-scale.
components. for the-oil,and gas industries. As the.majority of.its.customers are international,-the DDS board.is
considering: whether the company, should ‘be hedging :its exposure to foreign exchange. risk. One of its key
customers;is NSDF, a:Norwegian oil exploration company:.
‘DDS and NSDF ‘have recently agreed :a contract (DDS/12/57) for the. supply of a large. consignment of
components. DDS will, start manufacturing ‘these at the end of September 20X1 and. the work: will. be
completed in the summer..of 20X2. DDS will receive the agreed contract price, 16.75 million. Norwegian
kroner-(NK), on 30 September:20X2.
Information regarding the, Bangladesh and Norwegian currencies is.given in the-table below:.
470) | ‘Financial. Management

Table
(1) Recent: research paid for by DDS produced the ‘following forecast spot rates for NK/Tk at’ 30.
September 20X2:
Probability
9.200:— 9.230 10%
9,300: 9.330 10%
9.400:=9.430 40%
9,500:—9.530 40%
(2). Spotsaate:(NK/TK) 9:300 —-9:325
(3) Forward rate at 30 September ,20X2 offered by DDS’s bank :'0.10 0.13 NK-discount
Current ,interest:rates ‘Borrowing Depositing
NK 6:60% pa 5.10% pa
Taka (Tk) 5.40% pa 4.30% pa
(4). DDS$’s bank has quoted the following twelve:month currency over-the-counter options each ‘with a
premium-of Tk25,000:
A. put option on 16.75 million NK at an exercise price (NK/Tk) of 9.300
A-call.option:on 16.75 million-NK at an-exercise price (NK/Tk) of 9.250
Looking ahead, the DDS board,has also identified a surplus of funds.denominated. in Taka., It-is planning to
invest this in March 20X2 in an interest-bearing Bangladesh deposit account for a, period of six ‘months. It
‘would like-to-investigate how it might ‘hedge against adverseiinterest'rate movements.
Requirements
(a) Assuming-the current:date.is 30:September 20X1, calculate the Taka amount recéivable by DDS.on 30.
September, 20X2 if it-uses:
(i) | The:expected spot rate-in. 12:months’ time
(ii); A forward contract
(iii) A money market hedge
(iv) An option. (10 marks)
(b) Making reference to your‘calculations.in.part (a). discuss the:issues 01809110110 be taken into account by
the DDS board when ‘it considers whether it should hedge. the ‘NSDF receipt.
(8 marks)
(c) Advise the DDS board as to the effectiveness’ of employing the. following ‘methods of hedging the
company’s exposure to interest rate risk on..the proposed ‘investment of ‘the surplus funds in March
20X2:
(i) .A.Forward Rate’ Agreement (FRA)
qi) -An.interestrate.future
(iii) Ann interestrrate option
(ivy An.interestirate swap. (8 marks). ৪
(26 marks) 2)
Now, go back to the Learning Objectives in ‘the Introduction. Tf you are satisfied you have achieved ‘these A
objectives, please-tick them off: 7
v
cE
R
a
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | A771

Answers to lintcrneiive qnesiions
‘Answer.to Interactive question’1
(a) The bank is being asked.to buy the-Danish-kroners:and will give'the exporter:
150,000 = Tk15,726.57 in.exchange
9.5380
(b) The bank is being asked.to’sell:the yen to the-importer. and will charge for the currency:
1,000,000 -r4,910:39
203.650
Answer to Interactive question 2
(8) If the actual spotirate.for Bulldog’to buy and ‘the bank ‘to sell the Reds.is 3:0800, the-result’is as. follows.
Tk
Revenue from:re-sale 32,000:00
Less:cost (100,000 + 3.0800) 32,467.53:
Loss (467.53)
(b) Ifthe actual spot rate for Bulldog'to buy and-the bank to sell 0161২608158 4.0650, the.result-is as.follows.
Tk
Revenue fromire-sale 32,000.00
Less-cost (100,000 + 4.0650) 24,600:25.
Profit 7,399°75.
This. variation, in,the:final ‘Taka cost.of the goods (and thus'the profit).illustrates the:concept of-transaction,
risk,
‘Answer to Interactive question 3
Using-interest: rate parity, dollar ;is the numerator and ‘Taka is the: denominator: So the expected.future exchange
rate dollar/Taka is given by:
g1.gsrtkx “98 5 $1.9686/11
1.05
This prediction is subject to great inaccuracy, but. note that. the company could ‘lock ‘into’ this exchange rate,
working a.money’market:hedge by borrowing today-in dollarsat 6%; converting.the cash to ‘Taka spot:and putting,
them.on ‘deposit at 5%. When the dollars are received from the:customer, the dollar loan:is repaid.
‘Answer. to Interactive question 4
The interest rates. for three: months are: 2.00% to. deposit in Taka and’ 1.75%: to borrow. in Swiss francs. The:
company'needs to borrow SFr2,500;000/1 .0175 = SFr2,457,003 today. These Swiss:francs will be converted’ Tk-at:
2,457,003/2.25.10 = Tk1,091,516. The company must deposit this amount.and, with three months:interest:of 2.00%,
will have-earned
Tk1,091,516 x (1 + 0.02):= Tk1,1.13;346
Thus, in. three months, the loan will. be paid. out of. the proceeds from. the debtor and the company will receive
Tk1,113,346, The effective forward rate which the company has. ‘manufactured’ is 2,500,000/1,1.13,346 = 2.2455.
This effective forward rate shows: the Swiss franccat‘a premium to the Taka because the:Swiss-franc interest rate.is
lower than the Taka.rate:
472} | ‘Financial Management

SFr Convert Tk
Now: Borrow: a 0 Deposit
ow: SFr 2,457,003 ” tk 1,091,516
Interest. Interest
paid: 1.75% earned::2.0%
3 months: SFr2,500,000 «----> 1 1,113,346
‘Answer.to Interactive 00165007115
The three choiées ust be compared on 4 siniilar basis, which means working out thé cost of eachto Trumpton.
either:now or in three months"time. In the following Paragraphs, the:cost to Trumpton now will be-determined.
Choice 1: the forward exchange-market
Trumpton, must ‘buy dollars in order to pay theUS jsupplier. The exchange rate,in a forward. exchange: contract to.
buy $4,000,000'in three: months time (bank sells)-is:
$

Spotirate: 1.8625
Less three.months premium 0.0180
Forward rate 1.8445
The cost‘ofthe $4,000,000'to Trumpton, in three months" time will be:
$4,000,000 = Tk2;168,609:38

1.8445
This is. the cost in three months. To work’ out the cost: now, we could say ‘that“by deferring payment for three
e ‘Saving having to borrow:money now at 14.25%-a year.to.make the payment now, or
০ — Avoiding the-loss of interest:on cash-on deposit, earning 11% a:year
The choice’between. (a) and (b) depends on, whether Trumpton Ltd needs to borrow to.make any current payment.
(a) of is cash rich (b), Here, assuimption (a)'is selected, but (6) might-in fact:apply.
At-an, annual interést rate. of 14.25% the rate for three months is 14.25/4 = 3:5625%. The ‘present cost! of
Tk2, 168,609.38 in three months’ time is:
32,168,609 -38 _12,094,010.26

1.035625
Choice 2: the money‘markets
Using:the money markets involves
(a) Borrowing in the-foreign currency, if the company will eventually receive;the currency ক
(b) Lending in the.foreign currency, if the-company will eventually‘pay thecurrency. Here, ‘Trumpton will pay iC}

$4,000,000 and so.it would lend US:dollars. iH]

Tt-would lend enough US dollars for three months, so that:the principal.repaid.in three: months time plus interest a
will amount:to.the:payment.due of $4,000,000. Ty
(a) ‘Since:the US dollar deposit:rate is 7%, the rate.for three months:is approximately 7/4:= 1.75%. B
(b) To earn $4,000,000 in.three:months' time at 1.75% interest, Trumpton would have.to lend now: R
$4,000,000. . ——
——__— _ = $3,931 ,203:93

1.0175 10
These dollars would: have to be purchased. now at the spot. rate of. (bank sells) $1.8625. 1116.0090:%010 be:
$3,931,203.93 _ ry 110,713.52

1.8625
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 1473}

By lending US dollars for'three months, Trumpton is matching eventual feceipts and paynients-in US dollars, and
so has hedged against’foreign exchangeé-tisk.
Choice 3: lead paymeiits
Lead. payments should ‘be. considered, when, the currency of payment is expected to strengthen over-time, and is
quoted forward at 4 prefnium on the foreign exchange:market. Here, the cost/of'a.lead payment (paying $4,000,000:
now). would be $4,000,000 1.8625 =.Tk2,147,651.01.
Summary
Tk .
‘Forward. exchange.contract: 2,094,010,26 (cheapest)
Currency lending 2,110;713.52
Lead payment 2,147,651.01
171] | ‘Financial Management

] C The importer’will need to enter into:an arrangement under which (ultimately) Taka are sold and.‘Swiss: francs
are bought: Only A. and ‘C ‘fit the bill.. However, A leaves:the importer, open to exchange: rate; fluctuations
between now and ‘three.months' time. Only.C will éliminate the-risk (since the spot rate and the’ three months’
‘SFr interest.rate-are‘certain).
2 Since. the sale is to be invoiced. in the Swedish.currency, the.importer will suffer no:gain-or loss. However, if:
the. Taka weakens, the exporter, will be able to exchange the Kroner:for. a greater number, of Taka, and will,
therefore-make.a gain.
3. ৯ The-company will:receive-$400,000 in.three:months; it will wish. to:sell those“at-a.rate‘determined today
under a forward contract.
4 ০ Bangladeshi company needs to sell US.dollars and buy-Tk.
A — equivdlent:to‘selling Taka
B equivdlent:to’ buying dollars (sold.the‘right.to: someone else to sell you dollars)
C equivdlent:to’buying;Taka
D — equivalent:to-buying:dollars
5 Forward.selling.rate:= 1.875. — 0:015 = 1.86 (remember to deduct‘a premium).
Therefore Taka. value = 10,000 = Tk5,376
1.86

$
Dollar bonds purchased = Tk500,000 x.1.8711 935,550.00
Interest earned at 1% 9,355.50.
944,905.50
Th.one month's time bank's buying.rate will be $1.8731 — 0.0035 = $1.8696..
Therefore Taka received = $944,905.50 =Tk505;,405
$1.8696
7 Bank.sells low, buys high
Forward.rate =?$(.1-7680.—--0.0035)
=/$1.7645
Receipt = $200,000
P "41.7645
= Tk113,347

Spot 1.5954 ms 1.5974 fe
1emonth 0.0150 _ 0.005. pm-(deduct):
1.5804 — 1.5924 রি
If we are buying euros wé will need:the dealer's selling-rate - 18 1.5804. A
| a P
g _F3,000,000 _ rK60:914 7
49.55-0.30 &
10 a | R
Spot:rate 234.46 = 234.78
3-month. premiim. 2:72 - 2.56 L
; 231.74 = 232:22 70)
(Remember to deduct.a premium)
We-are.selling yen:in three:months’ time,:and so must-use.the.dealer's buying-rate.of 232.22.
Therefore amount.receivable:= 4,680m =.Tk20,1:535303
232.22 se
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | OB

11. Tk500,000-converted into $:30016.50001908, gives: Tk500,000'x 1.8711 = $935,550.
Interest thereon. at:1 % = $9:355.5.
This ‘will be coriverted back to Tk at the forward-rate $(1.873:1 — 0.0035) = $1.8696, which gives $9,355.5 =
1,8696 = 11,004,
Note: this is-not'the total income-from, the ‘transaction. There-will also be:an.exchange-gain on.the:principal.
12. ‘Mogs Ltd is,invoiced in Taka and so. exchange rate movements will ,have:no éffect.
Cantona invoiced the sale in Taka: As the Taka strengthened. (16 more euros to Tk) against, the. euro, the
amount.received,. when. converted to-euros,. will be:higher. Hence:a gain-will be experienced.
13 B 0) A put option gives:the holder the right to sell the underlying: which is:-relevant where:the company
‘expects’ to.receive foreign-currency in,the: future.
(2) A call option gives. the holder 016 right to buy the underlying item and. is relevant, where..a
‘company expects to pay‘foreign currency in, the-future.
(3) ‘Borrowing Bulgarian levs is.appropriate:when.levs:are expected.to. be:received_in;the future.
(4) A forward contract:to:sell Bulgarian levs will.not hedge against the:risk.
14 Forward.rate $(1.9015 — 0:0030) ='$1:8985.
Taka conversion. = $500,000/$1.8985
= 'Tk263,366
15 $1.4400 to Tk1
$1.52:x 1.08/1.14=:$1.4400
16 Tk3,776.64
35,000/(9:2225 + 0:045) = Tk3,776.64
The company‘is buying francs.(in-order to pay’ the overseas supplier) and-so the bank:is selling. Forward rates
‘'are:at.a discount to 90010181065, ‘and: discounts’must be:added.
17 The-dollar would weaken and the:forward premium’ would. increase.
The increase in Bangladesh-interest rates would strengthen Taka. against the dollar ‘at the spot rate, because
Taka becomes a.more attractive:currency to buy.and invest:in,
The forward rate“premium is measured approximately: by
1+ USdollar interest rate.
1+ Taka interest rate:
So, for example, if US interest: rates ‘are 9%, and ‘Bangladesh rates. went’up frony 14% to 15%, thé forward rate.
would. change: from. 1.09/1.14. = .0:956' to 1.09/1.15 = 0.948 of the: spot rate. The premium would increase from
0.044 (4.4% of-the:spot:rate) to 0.052 (5.2% of. the spot:rate).
18 Tk20,238.
The company ‘wants the currency two. and. a half months from now, and the bank: will quote. a rate for the
krona under, a.forward:exchange-option. agreement. This will give:the company the choice:of when to obtain.
the. currency at any ‘time between two:months.and three months from the-date of agreeing the contract; —-here,
at any‘time between.].June-and 1 July
476) | ‘Financial Management

2-month 3-month
rate rate
Spot: 9.90. 9:90
Premium_(deduct) 114. 134
Forward rate 9.8875 9.8825
The forward rate will be 21021 016 two: month forward, rate or the: three month. forward ‘rate, whichever. is
more’ beneficial.for the bank.
The bank is:selling krona, and so the lower of these-rates will be used.
Cost:200;000/9.8825 = Tk20,237.79.
19: 237.1 and let;the option lapse.
The option premium ‘makes foreign currency options quite expensive, and. could therefore be unsuitable for’
any .company trading! on .narrow profit: margins. Options are often ‘used by companies faced ‘with (1) a
curreficy..exposure that. might not arise at: all. or (2). where the amount of the total ‘receipt or Payment ‘is
uncertain,
Option. premium =.240 « 1.2% =.2.88 yen
Worst case =!240 — 2:88:= 237.12’yen
If the spot rate:in six months"time is 245, the company-will allow’the option to lapse, and buy yen.at:the. spot,
rate; its all-in cost.would be 245—2.88 option premium:= 242.12.yen ‘to Tk1.
20. (a) Set-up the-hedge
The:receipt: of dollars ‘is hedged by buying Taka futures now. (12 July) and selling Taka futures ‘on ‘13
December. ‘The September. contract. will be no ‘use because it expires on 30 September. Either of the
other two:contracts:can be used. It‘is usual to choose the contract. which expires next after 13 December.
‘This.is the December contract which expires on 3:1 December.
Assuming the December, contract is chosen,. the receipt of' $2,000,000 converts, using ‘the futures
coritract: price, to $2,000;000/1.5556 = Tk1,285,678. The: contract: size is. Tk62,500. The ‘umber of
contracts ‘to be bought:is Tk1,285,678/Tk62,500 = 20.57,-rounded to 21 contracts.
On 12 July, buy twenty-one December Taka.contracts' at:$/Tk<1.5556..On 13 December,-sell twenty-one.
‘December Taka contracts.
Futures position
$
12 July - ৮৮ [38:30 1.5556.
13’December— sell Taka at 1.6502
$0.0946/Tk.
Gain on-futures trade = $0.0946 x:Tk62,500. x:21 contracts
= $124,163 ১০০
Spot:market টে
$ ঢা)
Receipt:from.customer 2,000,000 AN
Gain on futures market- 124,163 Pp
2,124,163 T
Sold-at prevailing spot:rate $1.6502/Tk: fe
‘TkI1,287,215 R
(b) The Bangladeshi company'can.hedge the’ payment of $5:million as follows:
Set-up hedge ——
. 10
০ Buying dollars equates to selling Taka
e 8 monthis from July includes February. The March future:is therefore most appropriate, as the |
December future will close out too;soon.
e The:company:will-therefore sell March Taka contracts at $1.5564
Managing: financial.risk: overseas:trade | 4771

$5:million,@ 1.5564 =°Tk3,212,542 Taka sold +:Tk62,500
=/5'1.4-contracts.—-rounded 00 51. contracts
Futures position
$
‘Sell. Taka-at 1.5564:
Buy Taka at 1.5504
Gain.on-futures '$0.0060/T°
X Tk62,500
x 51, contracts
Overall gain-on-:futures: -$195125
Spot.market
$
‘Value of gain:on futures 19,125
Payment to customer (5,000,000)
Total amount.required (4,980;875)
Bought'at prevailing spot rate $1.5504/Tk
Overall cost 'Tk3,212;639
(works.out to be the equivalent of :$1.5564/Tk-—.so matches:the future rate)
21 (a)
31/12/X1.
“Exchange:rate $1.80/Tk $2.00/Tk:
‘TK'000 Tk'000.
‘Tk. value-of $18,000 asset = 10,000 ‘9,000
Bangladesh assets 6;000 6,000,
16,000 15,000
‘Bangladesh loan (01,000) (011,000)
Net assets 5,000’ 4,000
Gearing ratio 116=68.75% 11/5 = 73.33%
(8) ‘The.increase in.gearing:caused by ‘the drop in, the Tk value of :nét.assets;or equity:could be mitigated by
a. similar drop in the Tk: value of the debt. Thus financing, the overseas assets by raising capital in $
would.stop the relative geating levél rising.by.as much.
22, (a) Number of contracts::
$25 million @ $2/Tk:= Tk12,500,000
TM 212,500,000 ,..
Te 31,250 =:400 contracts
(b) The company needs to buy $-and therefore needs'to'sell Taka— a put-option
(০) It:is currently. June — the payment:is required in three months.ievat.the:end of August.
June options. will close out:too soon, September contracts are:required.
(d) The cost.of a September. put option at $2/Tk is:$0.0157/Tk
The.total cost of 400.contracts\is
400 X Tk3.1 250:x:$0.0157/Tk = $196,250
Paid.now @ $1.97 = Tk99;619
478} | ‘Financial Management

(৬) Positionin options:market. 7
(i) (ii)
$/Tk $/Tk
Prevailing rate 1,98 2:02
Option -:right-to-sell Taka for 2.00 2.00
‘Value of option $0.02/Tk zero
s. Exercise 1 Abandon
‘Total. value-of, option $0.02/Tk
xx Tk31,250
x 400-contracts
‘$250,000
Position.in. spot market $ S$
_Amiount die ‘to supplier 25,000,000 25,000;000
Gain.on option (250,000): —
‘Total ‘currency required 24,750,000 _ 25,000,000
Prevailing spot $1.98/Tk $2.02/Tk
Cost at prevailing spot Tk12,500,000 Tk12,376,237
‘Plus:cost of premium Tk99,619 Tk99,619
‘Total.cost ‘TK12,599,619 Tk12,475,856
23 RUTINILTD
Calculate the.effects of each.of the.four.approaches
(a) ‘Convert at spot.in. three months’ time
(1) If exchange rateis Tk1/€1.50
€5m/1.50'='Tk3,333,333 (receivable in, three:months' time)
(2) If exchange rate‘is Tk1/€1.70
€5m/1 .70'='Tk2,941,176 (receivable in, three:months’ time)
(b) Use the forward:market
3-month forward sell.rate = 1,5625 —-0.0015
=€1.561
€5m/1.561.= Tk3,203,075 (receivable'in three months" time)
(c) Buy 36511 put option
(1) (Exchange rate in three months: Tk1/€1.50
In-this ৫856 the company-will not exercise the option but-will Convert.at spot.
€5m/1..50-= Tk3,333,333
(2) Exchange rate in three months: Tk1/€1.70
‘In this case the company‘will exercise the option and:convert.at the strike price of €1.561.
‘€5m/1.561 = Tk3,203,075
Tir both. cases. the company. will have paid Tk125;000 :for, the: option. Tf it is. assumed that this is r
currently:invested at the three-month Taka deposit rate‘of 3.6% pa,.this will effectively:cost (when C
interest.is taken,into account) [|
125,000 x 1,009 সপাা26,125 a
(d) Money market cover: v
cE
Convert.atspot = €4,960,317 = 1.5625 1.0)
= Tk3,174,603
Invest. for 3:months = =.Tk3,174,603. x (1 40.009)
=.Tk3:203,174
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 479)

Summary:
Cash receipts in three-months' time (in Tk)
Spot.rate in three months
TKI/€1.50 TK1/€1.70
(i) Conversion.at.spot 3,333,333, 2,941,176
Gi) Using.the-forward market, 3,203,075 3,203,075
ii) Buying a.€5m put option
Before interest cost 3,333,333 3,203,075
After interest cost (Tk126;125) 3,207,208 3,076,950
(iy). Borrowing € 3110 investing Tk, 35203174 3,203,174
24 POTION LTD

A forward, exchange contract is binding .in that, once entered, into, Potion, Ltd. must comply with -its terms

ifrespective-of what the other party does.

If, for‘example,, Harding Inc does:not pay the $1.5m.on the pre-determined date, Potion Ltd will still’have to

sell.$1.5m.to the-other party-to the contract. This ‘would necessitate Potion Ltd buying $1..5m at-spot on that,

date and then re-selling the dollars at'the agreed forward exchange rate.

This could work:to Potion Ltd's advantage 16016 rates were to-move favourably, but extra;commission costs

would have ‘to be. paid andthe reverse: situation, where rates move against the company, could. lead to

significant translation losses.

Another, aspect of the.forward exchange contract is that if Harding Inc honours:its side of.the contract but the

spot rate-is now more preferable than the. previously negotiated forward exchange rate, then it is not:possible

to.convert;the $1.5m:at,the more advantageous rate:on the day-of receipt.

Both of: these situations can be: avoided by using’ a currency ‘option. It will also. give Potion. Ltd more:

flexibility. Potion Ltd could. buy‘an. American put option.at-the start of the contract:to.have the right, but-not

the:obligation, to sell,dollars at.an agreed rate-at:any'time up to the:date of receipt of:the-$1.5m..

(a) If Harding Inc: fails to deliver the currency, Potion, Ltd could ‘merely let the ‘option lapse, since. no
currency needs.to: be converted.to“‘Taka. Admittedly the. premium: paid.on the option isia cost, but.this:is
likely:to be.relatively small:compared with.the underlying Taka:equivalent:value:of $1.5m.

(৮০) 11106 event.of Harding. Inc failing to.comply, Potion:Ltd can still use the option.to:its advantage. If the:
exchange rate were to move-such that the buying rate-were higher’than the:agreed option selling rate for
‘dollars (for example option.selling price: Tk1 = $1.5; current.exchange rate to. buy dollars: Tk] =:$1.6),
then Potion, Ltd could, at’any time up to the exercise: date, buy dollars at this favourable:rate-and then
resell.them.at.the:favourable option:rate, thus generating a gain.

(c) If Harding Inc does pay for the:contract, then.Potion Ltd still has the-right to choose between the option,
price:and the-spot rate:on the day the.dollars are received, ie by letting the-option.lapse:if the-spot rate:is
favourable or by’exercising:the option if the-option rate is: preferable.

25 ‘STORACE LTD
(a) Taka:

Amount of Taka to.be:received by:Storace.Ltd

‘Method 0) ‘Invoice in Taka
Cash received = Tk100,000

Metliod 01) Convert price to dollars now atcurrent:rate, ie:
‘Tk100,000. x 1.1.1 ='$11:1,000
‘Receive $1.11,000:in three months and convert to Taka
‘Best outcome $111,000. + 1.09 =TKIO1,835
‘Worst outcome. $1.11,000.+ 1.20 =Tk92,500

Method (iii) Since we.are to invoice in-dollars now’ ($1:11,000), we need to ‘sell ‘the dollars forward
three months.
The forward rate = Spot'rate less premium,

0480 | ‘Financial Management

‘The appropriate-premium:to take is 1.15 cents, which applies to selling. dollars তি রে,
(check: to sell dollars the bank require more dollars ‘for our pound than if we buy
dollars),
‘Thus forward rate =$(1/11 —0.01,15) = $1.0985
We therefore eriter into a forward contract, now which will énable us ‘to receive with
‘certainty-in, three:months $111,000 + 1.0985 = Tk 101,047.
(b) Report:
To The:directors of Storace Ltd
From Consultants
Date Today
Subject: ‘Best:method'of invoicing for the export sale 08 machine
This report:considers the advantages and disadvantages, of the three. methods:of invoicing which,you are
considering.
(i) Invoicing‘in Taka
This.has the:advantage of guaranteeing the:sum which.is receivable:in. three months as Tk.100;000.
There is no bankers’ commission for handling:foreign exchange. The-sale-can.be’treated exactly as
an.ordinary'Bangladesh sale-and there are:no problems with.entering:it:into the books of‘account.
However, the cash received will be less than. that:received in method. (iii), which is. only slightly
more-risky.
(ii), Invoicing:in dollars with no forward contract
Given that the sale has already been finalised-and that the customer’ will not:mind which currency
‘is used forthe ‘invoice, the.only advantage: of this ‘method is the: gain which, will be ‘made if the
‘pound falls against the:dollar.
The.disadvantage is the’ loss which will be: made if. the pound ‘rises. Since it:is expected that. the
pound .is more. likely to rise. than ‘fall, ‘this is not thought to be a good gamble. Most financial
managers take the.view that it is.better to minimise currency risk.rather:than. to-speculate..
(it) Invoicing“in dollars with forward contract
The: forward contract: eliminates the tisk’ from, currency. fluctuations. "Thus, assuming that the
customer pays.on time.and does not default, the Taka value of the sales proceeds can effectively’
be.decided.now. ‘The. figures show that this is Tk101,047, which, even. after bankers' commission,
is higher than’the Value of Tk100;000 if the:invoice were in. Taka.
Ifthe customer’ defaults, then you must still honour the contract to séll the dollars for Tk] =
$1.0985 in three months’ time, In order to do this you -will have‘to buy dollars at the spot rate. If
this is lower than $1,0985 then’you will make an exchange loss,
If the-customer does not pay'on time, then you, may extend the:forward contract’ by closing off the
original deal. and entering into anew deal. Again, this will result in an exchange difference,
though’ very:smiall.,
Alternatively you may decide that it: is better to sign. the. original deal as an, option. forward [
contract, in which a-range of possible maturity dates is Specified instead of just one date. ৩
Conclusion. A
Since the:risk:of default: is.regarded as small; we recommend that you adopt method (iii) in invoicing RP
Jacquin Inc.. v
(c) Implications for financial management:of undertaking.a major export sales drive. 8
Currency problems
The:first problem isthe ‘decision whether, to invoice in Taka or the customer's currency (or, some, other r
acceptable:currency such.as dollars). i
The ‘advantage of invoicing ‘in Taka is that:no problems: are posed in handling or accounting:for foreign
exchange: However, Taka may.:not: prove: popular with customers, and sales may’ be lost as a.result. :
Moreover, currency’fluctuations will mean that if sales are invoiced.in Taka, prices must be regularly
revised in order, to stay competitive:
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | Ol

Invoicing in ‘foreign Currencies will probably boost salés,. but brings with 10016 problems of exchange

Tate exposure, Although ‘taking.a speculative approach to exchange rate ‘movements. is not nécessarily

'wrong,. the usual. view is that the firm is in business’ to:sell, not to play the-markets, and shareholders

‘will-not welcome the taking of unnecessary:risks.

Currency exposure on,export-sales can be eliminated by ‘various “hedging” operations, such as

(i) ‘Forward. contracts with bankers, in, which the foreign currency to be received is. sold, forward to.
the expected, date of:recéipt (or range of dates)

Gi) Similar transactions using the currency futures market

(ii) Taking out overdrafts in foreign. currencies involved and using ‘the -receipts from foreign
receivables to reduce the. overdraft. The idea :is to. match. assets and. liabilities in .each ‘foreign
currency, but this-should be done in economic:rather than accounting‘terms, so-that-each:overdraft
should equal the total value of-invoices plus the order, book:in that;currency.

The: money-markets: do not handle many-of the world’s. currencies; in-which case a substitute-currency

should be used, for invoicing and/or, for hedging: For instance, ‘the Kuwaiti, dinar is strongly correlated

with, the dollar, whereas: the Nigerian naira is. strongly correlated with, Taka. Any firm selling into. a

number of overseas: markets: would be-well advised to construct a,table of these-currency dependencies.

‘The ‘most; popular proxy currencies to use aré. the US dollar; the Euro, the Japanese. yen and of course

‘the Taka.

If overseas. operations are to increase significantly, it will be ‘necessary to, train a ‘member. of staff. in

foreign exchange problems, or possibly-to recruit an expert:,

Trading risks.

Apart from the: exchange risk, the normal problems ‘of selling on ‘credit will be increased in foreign,

countries because of lack of knowledge of.the business environment and customary trade:credit periods,

the need to give longer credit periods to beat the competition, ‘possible political risks including

exchange control problems, and the.distance of the‘customer making bad.debts or delayed receipts.more

likely. It:will probably be necessary.in'some countries to.appoint an-agent'to collect debts.

‘The Export Credits Guarantee Department, a government body, provides'insurance to cover the risks of

bad debts from.overseas trading. although. its ‘short-term. business (less: than two years): has been taken,

over by.a Dutch.concern, NCM. This insurance:covers: both.commercial and political risks:

Increased finance requirements:

Any increase ‘in ‘sales will cause a need for increased working capital. For overseas’ sales ‘the ‘need ‘is

greater because: the credit’ periods: involved 376 usually longer. The methods of. raising funds, which are

‘specific to export sales, include

0 Foreign bills of exchange, or letters of‘credit discounted witha bank

01) ~-Export‘factoring, which can provide: a. sales ledger ‘service in all ‘major currencies’ as: well as an
‘advance of funds

(iit) Bank. loans. guaranteed by the.ECGD: or NCM. These organisations. run many Schemes to assist
exporters, and their help should be sought:before‘embarking.on the sales drive.

26 WHARTON.LTD’
(a) -Advantages/disadvantages of trade credit

Advantages.

০ Convenient and informal

° Can’be used if‘more formal sources of.finance:unavailable-

০ Can be.used with little. planning to overcome:short-term:cash-flow difficulties.

Disadvantages

e May be'expensive (can, involve-not-taking prompt payment discounts)

° Can.damage supplier:goodwill.ifiabused.

(b) Contribution.calculations
No hedging
482} | ‘Financial Management

2.7
— -— 1.5 =.Tk0.265m
1.53
Hedging with forward
57 1.5 = TkO.305m
1:4956
(০) Option 1
Hedging with 1.50 option
Exercise-— better to convert at 1.50 than:at,spot.rate-of 1:53.
Hedging with 1.55 option
Not exercise:— better. to convert at spot rate of 1.53 rather than 1.55.
(0) Hedging:
Need to consider’corporate objectives ‘and level-of corporate:risk.aversion.
Hedging:is zero NPV if instruments‘are fairly priced,.so should be'a priori indifferent:
However, factors such as managerial. compensation contracts, tax, bankmuptcy costs, etc may create 4
role-for hedging.
(০) Relative advantages/disadvantages
Forward —no-premiuni but lockéd in, ié-have to use éven-if would prefer'to.séll-at:spot.
Option — pay premium but have:option to sell atispot if beneficial.
27 POTEN'LTD
The risks. facing:a Bangladeshi: company exporting components to-Eastern Europe include the following:
The logistics of transport The: greater. distance’ will incur higher: costs of haulage. The goods will
‘be'in transit for longer; which means ‘there will be an.increased cost of
insurance, and a greater. chance that: something will go wrong. eg
‘breakdown, damage, theft-etc..
The time:period increases The amounit-of ‘time the inventory is in transit means greater. financial
pressures,.as it heeds to be financed from the-time‘the exporter’ buys the
goods until the:customer, pays for them.
Increased credit risk When faced with Bangladeshi customers who do not pay on time, the
company will. be on familiar, territory in terms of. instigating’a process
to.recover the goods or.the outstanding payment.
If a-customer’in.Eastern.Europe delays payment, the process is likely to
be much more involved.
In;summary; exporting will create.increased financial cost.and crédit risks:for:the company, 93
Some exporters 00 not use export credit insurance-as the:costs are too high. However, the ‘situation faced by’ A
Poten.Limited suggests: that.some protective measures:-are required. By
A documentary credit — or:a letter ‘of ‘credit — is: an‘assurance by a bank. that they will guarantee: payment. u
when.the money‘is ‘due. 10415 possible to obtain immediate: payment (subject toa discount):from-a bank. when, R
aletter of credit is.in place.
The benefit of:a non-recourse.factor is:that:if:the client's debtors do not pay what they:owe, the factor’ will‘not —
ask. for the:money back. 1.0)
A bill of exchange is.an acceptance to pay an amount on.a certain date. Avalising’ bills of exchange is where
the buyer's bank:adds its name to a.bill, to‘indicate:it:guarantees payment at.maturity. :
28: JETAIR LTD.
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 483)

(a) 0) Byselling the receipts forward, the:company can‘lock-in-a Taka ‘value of 60,000,000/1.5830 =
Tk37,902,716.

(01) The:company can also hedge its euro-receivables by borrowing €58,536,585 (the presént value of
€60,000,000' at a .180-day interest rate of 2.5% (5.0% ‘x: 180/360)); sell the. proceeds in. the. spot:
market. at.a rate of. 15669: euro/Tk (giving: Tk37,358,213); and invest.the Taka proceeds 808 180-
day .interest rate of 2.0%. (4.0%. x 180/360) to produce’ Tk38,105,377.. Using.:a money market:
hedge, therefore, the company can‘lock, in a Taka value of: [60,000,000/(1+ 0:025)]/1.5669 x
(140.02) = Tk38,105,377.

The money market hedge yields a.higher Taka value:for the euro receipts:and so.is preferable.

(b) Based-on the.advice that. the future spot.rate will be lower:than.the. current forward rate, it would.appear
that the:company would be better off: waiting to convert its sales; at.the-future spot-rate.

However, the:finance: director should consider, whether the:dealer has private information that.is not yet

reflected in the: current market’ rates: and: why s/he. is: willing to give ‘it to. the company. Without such,

‘information, it would in general be difficult.to-outperform the foreign exchange market, as.if, the market

was efficient the-forward rate would reflect.the:mostlikely value ofthe future:spot rate.

(c) A currency option contract gives the holder the:right, but:not:the obligation to’ buy or sell currency. at
some future time at a pre-determined rate.of exchange. Here the company would buy a.put option on the
euro:(or a call option.on'the Tk), which.would give'the company the right to sell euros and receive Tks.
Tf the spot;exchange:rate.moves 38811150016 company; the option ০11,065 exercised in order to limit-the
company's. loss: However, 10006 spot:exchange:rate moves:in favour of the:company, the-option can be
allowed. to lapse with. the company dealing: at, the prevailing ‘spot rate. .Downside risk: is, therefore,
eliminated whilst upside. potential,is retained; although, of, course,-an option premium is the. price paid
to benefit,from this-flexibility:

If the future.euro/Tk:spot rate-= 1:5830 (forward market-expectations), the company should exercise the

option, @: 1.5700. yielding Tk38,216;560 — 20,000 = Tk38,196;560 (which exceeds. the spot value: of

Tk37,882;7.16:net of the: premium assuming the premium is payable after 180 days):

Tf the future-euro/Tk spot:rate = 1.5649 (dealer's estimate), the-company should.let the option lapse and.

deal at-the spot:rate, yielding Tk38;321108 net.

(d) The implications for financial:management comprise:

1 Transaction. risk —'the uncertainty caused by‘fluctuations in exchange rates between the date of

‘entering into a.foreign currency-denominated ‘contract and the:date of settlement of that contract.
This: gives ‘rise to the need to decide: upon. an invoicing strategy — whether to invoice in Taka,
thereby:removing all. transaction.risk. but potentially. putting sales in jeopardy, or to.invoice-in the.
‘customer's-currency'(or‘some other-acceptable currency), thereby potentially. winning, business: but
exposing the business:to transaction risk, when. shareholders are unlikely to:want the company. to
‘speculate on. market.movements.
This: gives ‘rise to the :need. to develop a suitable hedging. strategy in respect of the company's:
export, sales using, potentially, forward contracts, money. market hedges, options: and futures
‘contracts, foreign currency. bank: accounts: and, borrowings (which ‘would. be repaid ‘from. foreign
currency. receivables) and matching/netting.of: foreign currency assets-and liabilities.

2 Economic:risk.—this is ‘the long-term version of:transaction:risk and arises:from variations:in the
overall. value:of the business (the.PV of*future:cash flows):due to unexpected changes in-exchange
rates.

ও Credit/Trading risk — selling on. credit in. overseas markets: .is often riskier than. doing’ 30
domestically. and ‘also often involves: granting extended credit terms. Both. of these. increase: the:
risk-of. bad debts: There’ is:also political risk (potential-exchange control legislation and the: like).
These: ‘risks give rise. to. the need to consider..credit insurance. covering both commercial and
‘political risks:through organisations, (such as:ECGD and NCM in UR).

4 Increased. financial ‘requirements — increased sales overseas. will create a need for increased
‘working capital which-gives rise to a need ‘to consider various export credit facilities ‘such as bills
of exchange, discounted. letters of credit, export factoring, and ECGD/NCM-guaranteed loan
finance..

29 TAWTORR INTERNATIONAL.LTD

(a) ০)

4541 | ‘Financial Management

Spot rate:at.29 February 20X2 = 61145/£
Sterling’ payment at‘current-spot.rate =€3.1m/1.145 £2,707,424.
If the euro strengthened by 2:5%, the spot:rate would be, 1.145 x 0.975 1.116
So the Sterling payment:= €3.11m/1.116 £2,777,718
Tf the euro weakened by'2.5%, the*spot rate’ would. be 1,145:x: 1.025 ‘1.174
So the Sterling payment'= €3.1m/1.174 £2,640,545
(ii) ‘Option
Call option (buy €) exchange-rate. is €1.155/£
‘Sterling payment €3.1m/1.155 £2,683,983
‘plus: Option. premium. cost 30,000
‘Sterling’ payment £2;713,983
-Money‘market hedge
Euro.invested now €3.1m/(1 + (6:9%/4] =€3.1m/1.01725 ‘€3,047,432
So Sterling payment, converted at spot:rate €3;047,432/1.145 £2,661,513
Sterling borrowed at.[4.8%/4] £2,661,513 x 1.012 £2,093,451.
Forward contract
Sterling payment: €3.1m/(1.145 + 0.008) — (€3.1mi/1..153):4+-£5,000] £2,693,638
(ii) Considering the spot rate, if the éuro weakens then this will benefit: TawTorr. A 2.5% reduction in,
the value of the-euro against Sterling will give.a het payment of £2,640,545, whilst-a stronger euro
gives a. Sterling: equivalent of £2,777,778. The difference between these figures is quite
considerable ~.£137,233.
So it,might be wise. to-consider. using 'the hedging instruments, but the-directors* attitude to.risk,
would influénce that,décision.
The: money ‘market:hedge (MMH) and the forward.contract (both.of which give a fixed outcome)
produce similar results, but the MMH is.a better’outcome (very marginal). The-OTC, option is.less
attractive, mainly because of the cost. of the option premium. However if Sterling had.
Strengthened sufficiently by 31. May-it would be worth not exercising the option. The break-even
exchange-rate for this:to. occur would.be a
€3.1 m/[£2;693,638 - £30,000], ie. €1.164/£. If the-rate was above this‘then.using the: spét.rate and
ignoring:the option ‘would produce:a lower Sterling. payment:than, that for the MMH.
(b) As TawTorr wishes to hedge against, the FTSE Index falling. it would buy May 20X2: put option
contracts.at.an exercise: price-of 4800:
The number of contracts = টি] = 75 contracts
(4,800x.£10)
‘Portfolio-and Portfolio-and
FTSE index falls FTSE. index:
rises
Portfolio value ‘@: 31/5/X2 3,450,000 3,675,000.
Option éxercised ((4800—4600] x 75 x:£10) 150,000 | Not-exercised 0 C
3,600;000 3,675,000. [|
Cost:of option (165 X 75 ১২৫10) (123,750) (123,750) A
3;476;250 3,551,250 P
Current 'value.of portfolio:(29/2/X2) 3,600;000 3,600,000. T
Decrease. in‘value:of portfolio 123,750 48,750 B
30. DEEP DRILL SUPPLIES LTD R
(a) (i) Possible-spot:rates at 30 ‘September.20X2 9.230 x 10% 0.923
9.330 x 10% 0.933 ia
9.430 x 40% 3.772
9:530 x 40% 3.812
Expected spotirate at 30 September.20X2 (NK/Tk) 9.440 |
So Taka receipt:if no hedging (i.e. spot.rate.at.30/9/X2). 16.75m NK, — .Tk1,774,364
Managing financial.risk: overseas:trade | 485

9.440

(ii) Forward.contract

Taka:receipt:. 16.75m NK 16:75m NK TK1,771;549
(9.325 +013) 9.455

(iii) Money market hedge

‘NK borrowed now 16.75m NK 16.75m NK’ 15,712,945 NK

(1+ 616%) _ 1.066 .
Taka.receipt,;converted at spot:rate 15,712,945 NK Tk1,685,034
Taka:inyested at 4.3%pa Tk1,685,034 x (1:+:4,3%) _TK1,757,490

(iv), Option
Putoption (sell NK) exchange.rate-is 9.300 NK/Tk
Taka:feceipt: 16.75m NK’ 1,801,075°

9:300 a
less: Premium cost Tk25,000 x: 1.043 (assumed on deposit) (26,075)
Taka receipt:- net Tk1,775,000
(b) The directors’ attitude’to.risk will be an important: factor.,

Taka.receipt.with.current’spot rate’ (9.325NK/Tk) (16.75m.NK/9.325) Tk1;796,246

The ‘forward. contract (assuming that ‘there is no arrarigement fee) produces: a-higher Taka receipt*than

the money market hedge. Both ofthese hedging methods will produce afixed Taka amount, known at:

the start of the hedging period,

If the-résearch: paid for, is accurate then it would be better to not-hedge at 81188 the spotsrate in twelve:

‘months’ ‘time will produce: 8 Taka. técéipt of TK1,774,364. If the: curtent: spot. rate remains constant:

(unlikely bearing-in mind the: comparative intérest rates-in‘the BANGLADESH and Norway) this would

produce. an even higher Taka ‘receipt.of Tk1,796,246, However, if the future spot:rate'is 9.53 (as per the

quéstion) the réceipt is: only Tk1,757,608 i.¢. worsé-than the:forward contract,

The put; option at; the: strike price of 9:30NK/Tk produces an attractive amount. of Tk1,775,000 and.

‘management might consider‘ paying thé Tk25,000 premium and_also have the chance to benefit‘from a.

low exchange raté in September 20X2., At a 00076 spot’ rate of 9.23 (as pér the question) the option.

‘would be abandoned with a receipt of (Tk1,814,735 —26,075)'Tk1;788,660.

(০) নম) FRA, this would fix the tate of interest:teceivable by:DDS. Upside potential is therefore removed.
‘Tt can be tailored;to the:exact-amount:to be-invested by DDS.

(i) Interest;rate:-future-—DDS would buy 11616801386 futures, but; 00696 are: for, standardised amouits,
which could be impractical..

(iii) Interest:rate:option —DDS would_have:the right to deal at.an agreed interest,rate at maturity date,
i.e. March 20X2. DDS would buy traded call options; but these-are for standardised. amounts and
may not..be suitable. So;. for more flexibility, DDS could. purchase 4. tailored. over the counter
(OTC) option.

(ivy), Interest:rate swap — it would be impractical,as a long term hedge for a large deposit. The hedge is
only for:six:months..It would be.difficult:to-find a counterparty:

486) | ‘Financial Management

Se Sse দা VE Ee eee TM beg
4 কহ ই ০৮ ng coe es eee = <a SAS FI ই ই চট pe Gere) Se,
Seay ss eo eae tiny Lopes ea eee Sa SoS AN CORR SiG ey ১২১৮ তু a
eae কা = woes aoe ag চর ও = Ree ০০ ৬২১ ah ১৬ Ox. ও
00000) না BE EA wry এ মে aS ee
Seas oat y eas eat ae তা
[oo

Formulae you may require:
3. Discounting.an- annuity
The annuity factor: AF y->-, = -| 1--————
‘Where এল = annuity factor
2 =number‘of payments
x. discount rate:as a.decimal
. Da(1
b. Gordon growth model: k, = 209) +g

Where =k, = cost of equity
‘Do = current dividend per ordinary share
gi? =the annual-dividend growth rate
‘Py = the current’ex-div'price-per ordinary share.
c. Capital asset pricing model: 10 5114 8) (tm 10
Wheré qt =the expected rétum from sécufity j
ty = the risk free-rate:
8; = the beta of security j
‘Tm = the expected return on the-market: portfolio
, . D(1-T).
E
Where. B. = beta.of equityin.a geared firm
B, = ungeared (asset):beta
‘D = market value-of debt
-E = market value-of equity
T. = corporation tax rate
Note: Candidates may use other‘yersions of these formulae but’should then define the:symbols they use.
4941 | ‘Financial.Management

Interest Number‘of Present value.of Present.value.of
rate ‘years CU1.receivable.at CUI receivable:at
p.a. n the end 0171 years the 0110 of each of

n. years
1% I 0.990 0.990
2 0.980 1.970
3 0.971 2.941.
4 0.961 3.902
5 0.951 4.853
6 0.942: 5.795
7 0.933 6.728
8 0.923 7.652
9 0.914 8.566
‘10: 0.905 9.471
5% 1 0.952: 0.952
2 0.907 1.859
3 0.864 2.723
4 0.823 3.546
a) 0.784 4.329
6 0.746 5,076
7 0.711 5.786
8 0.677 6.463
9 0.645 7.108
‘10 0.614 ‘7.722
10% 1 0,909 0:909
2 0.826 1.736
3 0.751 2.487.
4 0.683 3.170
5 0.621 3.79]
6 0.564 4,355
7 0.513: 4.868
8 0.467 5.335
9 0.424 5.759,
10. 0.386 6.145
15%: 1 0.870 0:870
2 0.756 1.626
3 0.658: 2,283
4 0.572 2.855
5 0.497 3.352
6 0.432 3,784
7 0.376 4.160
8 0.327 4.487.
9 0.284 4.772,
10 0.247 5.019
20% 1 0.833 0.833
2 0.694. 1.528
3 0.579 2.106
4 0.482, 2.589
‘5 0.402. 2.99.1
6 0.335 3,326
7 0.279 3.605
8 0.233 3.837
9 0.194 4.03.1.
10. 0.162 4.192,
Appendices | &S

। REVIEW FORM — FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT STUDY MANUAL

Your ratings, comments and suggestions would be appreciated on the following areas of this
Study Manual.

Very useful Useful Not useful
Chapter Introductions Oo C] []

! Examination context CL] [] []

। Worked examples [7 LC] [1]

৷ Interactive questions Oo oO CL
‘Quality of explanations [] [] []

। Technical references (where. relevant) [] 7 []

। Self-test questions [] LC] []

। Self-test answers Cl [J []

| Index oO oO []

। Excellent Good Adequate. Poor
। Overall opinion of this Study O OJ O Oo

' Manual

| Please add further comments below:

Please return completed form to:

The Learning Team |

Learning and Professional Department

ICAB

। CABhaban

\ 100 Kazi Nazrul Islam Avenue

Kawran Bazar

| Ohakai215

E learning@ Dicab:org.bd