=== Advanced OCR Text Extraction Result ===
Original File: bank_opening_guideline_20.pdf
Extraction Method: Image-based OCR (pypdfium2 + Tesseract)
Language: bn+en
Extracted Characters: 27092
Processing Date: 2025-08-28 15:36:12
============================================================

GUIDELINES TO ESTABLISH A
BANKING COMPANY IN BANGLADESH

GUIDELINES TO ESTABLISH A. BANKING COMPANY IN BANGLADESH
According to Section.31 of the Banking Companies Act;.1991, no company shall
carry out banking’ business in Bangladesh without obtaining a license from
Bangladesh Bank., Bangladesh Bank will decide to grant licenses after
considering the need and overall strategy congenial to effective monetary and
financial sector policy for the country. Bangladesh Bank must be satisfied that.
the following: terms and conditions: for the establishment of a new banking’
‘company in Bangladesh have been met:

1. Status of the new commercial bank:
1:1 Must bea public limited company incorporated in Bangladesh.
2. Paid.up capital.requirement for a bank to be established:

241 The paid up capital of new commercial bank shall not be less than Taka
400.00 Crore as required under Bank: Company Act 1991. The share
capital will be formed with ordinary shares only.

3. Mode.of payment:

3.1. For a banking company incorporated in Bangladesh, the capital
contribution made: by the sponsors and subscribers of the proposed
bank shall be in a liquid, unencumbered form (such as cash or approved
securities), held ina bank account that-has been verified. by Bangladesh
Bank, and under’a Bangladesh Bank lien.

4. Sponsors.and share capital contribution:
Initial minimum capital. Taka 400.00. crore shall be provided by sponsors. of the
proposed bank..

4.1. The bank shall issue public shares within three (3) years from the date of
commencement of ‘the banking business. Public issues shall be at: least.
equal to sponsors’ share: amount.

42 The minimum shareholding stake of each sponsor ‘shall be Taka 1:00
crore and the maximum. shall be 10%-of the proposed bank’s total share
capital. This ceiling of 10% applies to an individual, company or family:
member, either personally, jointly or both. “Family” is defined herewith
to. include. spouse, father, mother, son, daughter, brother, sister of the
individual or anyone dependent on. that individual.

4.3. The ceiling of 10% may be relaxed in the case of a bank set. ৮0 35 a joint.
venture with a foreign.financial institution or banking company.

Page |‘1

44 Sponsors holding 5% or more shares shall have to sign a capital
maintenance agreement (CMA) stating that they would, jointly and
severally inject additional capital if the bank ever fell below any’
minimum capital ‘requirement: In. case of failure to inject such capital
within the stipulated time, the responsibility would fall on individuals
within the sponsors group to bear the entire burden of the required
injection.

4.5 The sponsors’ shares shall not be transferred. within a period of three (3)
years fromthe commencement of the business, without permission from
Bangladesh Bank.

4.6 Sponsors’ contribution tothe equity capital of the proposed bank will be
required to be out of net worth declared to the Tax authorities in form
IT10B; contribution out: of borrowings from bank or non-bank financial
institution shall not be acceptable.

4.7 If an individual or any: member. of his/her family is: or had been a loan
defaulter with a bank/financial. institution at any time during the past.
five years shall not be eligible to apply as a sponsor of the proposed
bank.

48 An individual awaiting verdict of any undisposed lawsuit in any
court/tribunal against his/her loan default status shall not be eligible to
apply as a'sponsor of the/proposed bank.

4.9 A tax assessee shall not be eligible to be a. sponsor if he/she has any
unpaid undisputed arrear of income tax assessed ‘for the current:year ‘or
any past year.

4.10 A ‘tax assessee penalized or awaiting court/tribunal verdict on any. suit:
for offence under Chapter XXI of Income Tax Ordinance, 1984 shall not:
be eligible to apply as.a sponsor of the proposed bank.

4.11 A tax assessee who has‘not:submitted overdue tax-return for the current.
year or who has undisposed, tax prosecution reopened under section 93
of Income Tax Ordinance, 1984 shall not be eligible'to apply as a sponsor
of the proposed bank.

4.12 Any, asséssee having unpaid liability for any undisputed. customs duty,
VAT, supplementary duty, excise duty or is awaiting verdict on any
prosecution under Customs. Act,1969; VAT Act,1991; Excise & Salt Act,
1944 in any court/tribunal shall not be. eligible to be.a sponsor of the
proposed bank.

5. Fit and Proper Test:for Sponsors/Directors:

5.1 Competence, integrity and. qualifications of the Sponsors of the proposed

bank becoming the first Directors shall. be evaluated. The evaluation
Page | ‘2

process shall include background checks on whether previous activities,
including regulatory or judicial. judgments, profession, raise. doubts
concerning‘their competence, sound judgment, or integrity.

5.2 The Sponsors/Directors shall qualify the Fit and Proper Test criteria (see
Annexure-V) applicable.for the Bank Directors‘in Bangladesh.

5.3. His/ her inclusion in the Board of Directors shall not-contravene any law
for the time being in force in Bangladesh and. in the country of his/her
present permanent domicile. He/she has not evaded any legal
proceedings of any country for any’ criminal offences or crime against
humanity except for offences of minor traffic violations etc.

5.4 Bangladesh Bank shall evaluate proposed sponsors as to expertise and
integrity (fit.and proper test), and any potential for conflicts -of interest.
The fit:and proper criteria include: (i) skills and experience. in relevant:
financial operations commensurate with the intended activities of the
bank; and (ii) no record of criminal activities or adverse regulatory
judgments that make person unfit to uphold important position in a
bank.

6. Management of the proposed bank

6.1. A Director or Advisor to any banking company’ other than the proposed
bank shall not be a Director'of the proposed bank.

6.2 The Member of Board of Directors shall be:restricted to 13 (Thirteen).

6.3. Maximum. number of directors from a family shall be restricted. to two
incase of the total ‘shareholding of that family exceeds 5% and one
diréctor ifthe total shareholding is‘up to 5%.

6:4 The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the proposed bank’ shall have at:
least 15 (fifteen) years of experience in the banking profession.

7. Operation of the proposed. bank.

7.1. The ratio of urban and rural bank branch has to be 1:1 or as per
instruction issued. by Bangladesh Bank from time'to time.

7.2 New Bank has to ensure finance at least 5% of its total lending into
agricultural sector or as'per instruction issued by Bangladesh Bank from
time‘to time.

7.3 Proposed bank should take part in Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)
activity. The new bank should spent 10% or more of its previous year's
net.income to CSR.

Page |°3

8. Required documents/ irformation/ analysis to be submitted to

Bangladesh Bank.

The application for approval to establish a new banking company shall be

submitted to Bangladesh, Bank with all ‘the accompanying documents and

information required, in the formats given in Annex I to.Annex IV. Bangladesh

Bank’shall only consider applications that include the following:

8:1. A bank draft:in:‘the amount of Taka 10 (Ten) lakh in favour of Bangladesh
Bank, attached to the Letter of Application, that serves as a
nonrefundable application processing fee;

8:2. Name and address of the Applicant;

8:3. Name, address, telephone number of the contact:person;

8.4 Feasibility Report, on, the proposed banking company (see Annex 11),
including an analysis of Bangladesh's macroeconomic environment,
financial system, as well as a business plan for the proposed bank,
financial projections and sensitivity analyses;

8:5 Biographical Reports (see Annexes: III and. IV) arid. proof of citizenship
for each promoter/director, CEO/MD and Heads: of Operation, Credit,
Finance, Risk Management ,Internal Control and IT of the proposed
bank;

8.6 Proposed compensation package:and other terms of contract of the CEO;

8:7 Minutes of the shareholders (sponsors) meeting;

8:8 Written agreement by the shareholders to organize the banking
company;

8:9 Sponsors have to:submit a business plan where management strategy of
following sector should be elaborately defined;

8:9.1 Risk factors relating:to assets of proposed bank.

8:9.2 Strategy :for reaching unbanked area specially. disadvantaged
locality/ group.

8:9.3 A strategy to provide financial services to enhance Bangladesh's
competitiveness by:reducing trade related banking fees/charges.

8.9.4 A strategy to provide banking services which could promote
export. diversification as well as to provide financial services for
non-traditional export sectors.and small & medium entrepreneurs.

Page | 4

8:9.5 New bank should bring new/modern technology (e.g. mobile
banking, internet banking) for providing better service to
customers.

8:10 Draft.:Memorandum and Articles of Association;

8.11 For a corporate promoter; Board Resolution, Articles, of Incorporation
and. By-laws, list. of directors and officers, list of shareholdings, audited
financial ‘statements for ‘the latest two years, certified. copies of the
Memorandum and. Articles of Association;

8.12 Joint Venture agreement, in casé.of foreign equity participation.

8.13 In.addition, the:sponsors:shall:

(a) having received a Letter of Intent from, Bangladesh Bank, the
company shall apply to Bangladesh Bank:for’a formal: license for
commencement of banking business ‘under Section 31° of the
Bank Company Act, 1991, and fora license to open a place of
business. under Section 32 of said Act in the :manner prescribed
thére under;

(b) register the proposed company with the Registrar of Joint Stock
Companies ‘under the Companies Act, 1994,.as ‘a public limited
Company,.and;

(c) obtain a Certificate of Incorporation. subject to the approval by
Bangladesh. Bank of the draft Memorandum and Articles of
Association;

(d) after obtaining the license from Bangladesh, Bank, the company
shall applyto Bangladesh Bank for its scheduling*under Article
37 of the Bangladesh Bank Order, 1972.

Page |'5

ANNEX 1

LETTER OF APPLICATION
Date:
General Manager
‘Banking Regulation and Policy Department
Bangladesh Bank
Head Office
Dhaka
Subject: Application to-establish a Banking Company in Bangladesh.
Dear Sir:

In accordance with Section 31 of the Bank Company Act, 1991, we would
like to apply to establish a Banking Company in. the style of <Name of the
proposed, bank> in Bangladesh. As required, the documents requested by
Bangladesh Bank are enclosed herewith.

We look forward to receiving your approval for the establishment of the
proposed, institution at:your earliest: convenience.

Sincerely yours,

Signature:

Name:

Proposed designation:

Address:
Telephone number:
email:
Encl: documents/information pertaining:to the application
Page | 6

ANNEX II
Letter of Application shall accompany the.A Feasibility Report:
and shall include the following:.
1. Macroeconomic. Background/Environment.in Bangladesh.
(i) GDP - Growth-and Structure
(ii) Saving & Investment - Situation
(iii) Industrial Situation
(iv). Fiscal Situation.
(v) Foreign Trade Situation
(vi) Financial and Monetary Development:
2. Financial System and.Structure.
(i). | Banking and. Financial Institutions
(ii) | Composition of Deposits, Credit & Investment and their growth
(iii) Credit/Deposit Ratio (at the National Level and the proposed area of
operation)
(iv) Investment/Deposit Ratio (at the: National Level and the proposed
area of operation)
(v) Interest Rate Structure and:Spreads
(ছা) Volume of Off-Balance Sheet Activities
(vii) Available-Financial Instruments and’the Need for Financial Innovation
(viii) Profitability Analysis
(ix) Shortcomings of the:present system and scope for improvement
(x) Justification ‘for establishing‘a new bank:
3. Business Plan of the Applicant. Bank’supported by study..
0) Fundamental strategy ofthe proposed new bank'to survive and grow
(0) Schemes related to new financial instruments (if any) proposed
Page | 7

(iii) | Branch Expansion Policy’

(iv) Organization Structure, Management:Skills &.MIS

(v) | Technology Transfer

(vi) Areas of Operations

4. Business Projection, Economic Justification:and Financial Analysis.

(i) Capital Structure.

(ii) Details of Fixed. Asset Expenditures

(iii) Details of Operating Expenses,

(iv) Details of Staff Expenses

(v) Details of Preliminary Expenses:

(vi) Market Share of Deposits, Credit & Investment

(vii) Basis of Interest Income, Other Income, Income from Off-Balance
Sheet Activities, Interest Expenses.& Loan.Loss Provisioning

(viii) Strategy of foreign exchange (i.e., treasury). business transactions and
the projected income

(ix) Projected. Annual Balance Sheet, Profit & Loss Account.and Cash Flow
Statement-for at-least 3. years

(x) Statement of capital growth plan and ‘fulfillment of Capital Adequacy:
Requirement

(xi) Strategy for dealing with risks encountered (6.8. credit risk, market
risk, operational risk 6007

5. SWOT. (Strengths/Weaknesses/Opportunities/Threats) Analysis’ of the
Applicant

6. Strategy for survival and growth.in the long run.

7. Sensitivity. Analysis with interpretation:

(i). Financial position if the Market Share of deposits & credits of the
proposed bank is reduced by 10 percent at the national level, district:
level or proposed area of operation.

(ii) Financial position if the Growth Rate of deposits & credits of the
proposed bank is reduced by 10 percent at the national level, district
level or proposed area of operation.

Page | 8

(iii) Financial position if the Interest Rate Spread. (weighted or un-
weighted) of:the proposed bank is limited to: 5 percent;

4 percent;

3 percent;

2. percent;

‘1 percent.
8. Full particulars of the person(s)/firms who/which ‘prepared the Feasibility

‘Report shall have'to be furnished.

Page | 9

ANNEX III
BIOGRAPHICAL REPORT ON SPONSORS/ DIRECTORS
1. Full Name:
2. Date of Birth: 3. Place-of Birth:
4. Citizenship:
Passport Number:
Date and Place.of Issue:
5. Full Address:
(a) Permanent: Telephone Number::
(b) Present, if different-from the Permanent: Telephone Number:
6: Marital Status:
If married; Spouse's Name: Occupation:
Spouse's Passport;Number:
Date and. Place of Issue:
Near Relations (parents, children, brother, sister) and. Dependents:
Name (First, Middle, Last
Education Name & Dates of Major Area Degree
Address of. Attendance of Study Awarded.&
Institution Date
HighSchool | | | ।আম্
[Undergraduate| |
[Graduate ||
Professional or
Technical
‘Seminar
Page | 10

8. Présent Occupation:
Organization Name:
Business Address:
Nature of Business:
Job Title:
Telephone Number:
9. Business Record (pertaining to the preceding 10 years)
Use additional sheets, ifnecessary.
Name & Address:of Dates of Position Held | Responsibilities
Organization Engagement
10. Describe each. enterprise, including. the name, address, type of enterprise
[public (listed or not), private] your percentage of ownership and the. type
of’ business of each enterprise or other entity which you own or control.
(Control means ownership. of 10% or more of the stock or ability to
effectively control the management of the enterprise or other entity).
List names, addresses and percentage of control and/or ownership of other
incorporators, partners and directors of the entity or enterprise referred to
above.
11.
Do you ‘perform any services for or have any| Yes No
business connections with any institution which is| ( ) ( )
subject: to ‘the supervision of Bangladesh Bank, or
any other authority of the government of
Bangladesh?
If "Yes," indicate the name of the institution, address
and nature of your work.
12.
Have you had, or do. you now have, any financial} Yes No.
interest, direct or indirect, in any institution/bank| ( ) ( ).
under the supervision.of any Government authority?
If "Yes," give the name of the institution, address and
nature of the.financial interest.
Page [11

13.
Being a sponsor of a proposed bank, how and from | _
what sources will 'you:pay for:your proposed amount | Yes No
of share capital?
(a) Othersources _ ( } C )
If" Yes," give details
14. Tax Identification Number (TIN):
(Attach. most recent returns and/or Tax Clearance Certificates, and certified
IT10B Fornis).
15. Are you disqualified from election or nomination or‘from occupying the office
of Bank Director owing to the following. circumstances?
(1) You have-less than 10-years of professional experience,
(2) You are:insane or mentally unsound,
(3) You are‘insolvent and adjudicated bankrupt;
(4) You have:been convicted by a court in any criminal offense or have been
involved in any fraud/forgery, financial crime or other illegal activities,
(5) You are a Director of any other banking company,
(6) You are a partner in any contract with a banking company’ in the
capacity of legal advisor, advisor, consultant, etc.
16. Answer 'to any of the questions below if they apply 00 you as an individual,
ora partner, director 017 00061 0131) enterprise.
Except for: minor traffic violations:
(a) Are any arrests; indictments, criminal information or other Yes ‘No
Criminal proceedings now pending against you? C ) ( )
(b) Were you ever convicted for any‘violation of the law? ( ) ( )
(c) Have you or has.any partnership of which:you werea
Principal officer.or major stockholder ever been judged ( ) ( )
Bankrupt?
Page | 12

(0) Has any business in which you. were a director, officer,
partner or major shareholder (5% or more of the. voting |
shares) defaulted on its ‘servicing obligations (principal | ( ) ( )
and/or interest): on outstanding debt or beén involved. in
unacceptable. foreign exchange.transactions?

(e) Has any enterprise in which you were a partner, director, or |
officer been the subject of criminal indictment or other ( ) ( )
criminal proceedings?

17. Asa sponsor of this proposed bank, I agree to hold at least Taka 1:00 crore
(or its equivalent) or an amount not exceeding 10% share of the equity
capital'to be issued. by the proposed. bank.

The undersigned affirms that the statements made and answers: given
herein are accurate and complete and hereby-authorizes the Bangladesh, Bank to
make any inquiry it deems appropriate in connection with. processing ‘this
questionnaire. False statements in this questionnaire ‘will be sufficient cause: for’
denial of:a license to establish banking operations in Bangladesh.

Signature of Sponsor/ Director:
Name:
Date:
Place:
Witnesses:
Signature
Name:
Address:
Signature
Name:
Address:
Page [13

ANNEX:IV
BIOGRAPHICAL REPORT ON CEO/PRINCIPAL OFFICERS
1. Full Name:
2. Date of Birth: 3. Place:of Birth:
4. Citizenship:
Passport Number:
Date and Place.of Issue:
Right-to-work.in Bangladesh Yes'( ) No()
Visa Type:
Expiration Date:
5. Full Address:
(a) Permanent: Telephone Number:
(b) Present, if different:from. the Permanent: Telephone Number:
6. Marital :Status:
Ifmarried, Spouse's Name: Occupation:
Education Name.& Address Dates of | Major Area | Degree Awarded
of Institution Attendance of Study & Date
HighSchool | |
[Undergraduate] | |]
[Graduate | |] |
Professional or’
Technical
Training
Seminar
8. Present.Occupation:
Organization Name:
Business Address:
Nature of Business:
Job Title:
Telephone Number:
Page | 14

9. Service Record (pertaining to the 15 years' experience in. the banking
profession). Please enclose supporting documents. Use additional sheets, 16
necessary, and account for all gaps in-employment.
Name &.Address'of Dates of Position Held | Responsibilities
Organization Engagement
10.
Do you perform any services for or have any business | Yes No
‘connections with any institution which is subject. to the - .
supervision of Bangladesh Bank, or any other authority of | ( ) ( )
the government of Bangladesh?
If "Yes," indicate the name. of the institution, address and.
{ nature of your work.
11.
Have-you had, or do you now have, any financial interest, Yes No
direct or indirect; in any institution/bank tnder the:
supervision of any Government.authority? ( ) ( )
If "Yes," give the name of the institution, address and
nature-of the financial interest.
12. Tax Identification Number (TIN) :
(Attach most. recent returns and/or Tax Clearance. Certificates, and. certified
IT10B Forms).
13. Are you disqualified for the post of CEO owing to the following
circumstances?
(1) You have less'than 15 years of‘professional experience:
(2) You-are insane or mentally unsound,
(3)You are insolvent.and adjudicated bankrupt,
(4) You have been convicted by:a court in any criminal offense or have been
involved in.any. fraud/forgery, financial crime or other illegal activities.
(5) You are a Director of any banking company:
(6) You are a partner in any contract with a banking company in the
capacity of legal.advisor, advisor, consultant, ete.
Page | 15

14. Answer to 3117-01016 questions below if they apply to you as an individual, or
a partner, director or officer ofan enterprise.
Except for minor traffic’violations:
(1)Are any arrests, indictments, criminal ‘information or | Yes No.
other
Criminal proceedings now pending against you? ( ) ( )
(2) Were you ever convicted for any violation.of the law? ) () |
The undersigned affirms that the statements made and. answers given
herein are accurate and complete and hereby authorizes the Bangladesh, Bank to
make any inquiry it deems appropriate in connection with. processing. this
questionnaire. False statements in this questionnaire will be sufficient cause for
denial 07311061156 to:establish banking operations in Bangladesh.
Signature of the. CEO/Principal Officer
Name:
Date:
Place:
Witnesses:
‘Signature
Name:
Address:
Signature
Name:
Address:
Page | 16

ANNEX V
CONSTITUTION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND FIT AND PROPER
TEST FOR APPOINTMENT OF BANK DIRECTORS

Responsibilities of running the affairs of a bank-company, like other
companies, are entrusted to its board of directors.. The responsibilities of the
board. of directors of a bank-company are more important. than, those of other
companies; because in case of a bank-company it is essential to: earn and
maintain confidence of the depositors: as. its business is mainly run. with, the
depositors' money. The board of directors shall also have to strive to
proteéct‘interests of its depositors as well as.of the shareholders. It is imperative
to. constitute the board of directors with competent and professionally skilled
persons and limit the number of directors with a view to formulating policy-
guidelines and supervising business activities: of the bank efficiently as well .as
ensuring good,and corporate governance in the bank.management.

Bangladesh Bank deems it necessary to issue directives for compliance of
the bank-company regarding constitution of the board of directors and fit and
proper test for appointment of directors in the interest of depositors and for
securing proper management of the bank-companies. Therefore, in exercise of
the powers. conferred. by section 45(1) of the BankCompaniesAct,1991, the
following restrictions have been imposed ‘regarding constitution. of the board of
directors and fit and proper‘test criteria for consideration and compliance of the
appointing authority (viz.-general meeting, board of directors etc.) of the
private banks regarding ‘appointment: or reappointment and filling up of casual
vacancy of the-offices of bank directors:

1. Constitution-of the Board of Directors:-
a) The board of directors of the bank-companies shall be constituted of
- maximum 13 (thirteen) directors. However, the directors of the banks,
where the number of directors.

b) This restriction shall. apply to appointment/reappointment of the
directors. against: retirement or filling’ casual. vacancy subject: ‘to
section 15 Ka Ka of the Bank Company: Act, 1991. Maximum number
of directors from 3. family shall be restricted to. two incase of. the. total
shareholding of that family exceeds 5% and. one director if ‘the total
shareholding is up to 5%. For this purpose family members shall
include spouse, parents, children, brothers and sisters of the director
and other persons dependent on him/her.

2. Fit and-Proper Test:-

3) The concerned person must have management/business or professional

experience for at least 10 (ten) years;

b) (S)he has-not been convicted in any‘criminal offence or:involved in.any.

Page | 17

fraud/forgery, financial crime or other‘ illegal activities;

c) (S)he has not been subject to any adverse findings in any legal
proceedings,

d) (S)he has not been convicted in regard to contravention of ‘rules,

~ regulations: or disciplines of the regulatory-authorities relating'to financial
sector;

e) (S)he has not been involved with.a company/firm whose registration /
license has been revoked.or cancelled.or which has gone into_liquidation;

f) Loans taken by him/her or allied. concern ‘from any bank or financial
institution. have not become defaulted;

g) (S)he has not been adjudicated a bankrupt by a court;

h) (S)he must be loyal to the decisions of the board of directors. However, in
case of note of dissent, (s)he may record. it.in the minutes of the board
meeting.and/or bring it to the notice of Bangladesh Bank considering. its
merit.

3. A person, proposed as a candidate for the office of director, shall furnish
along with the ‘consent letter for the purpose of section 93 of the
Companies Act, 1994 a declaration.as per the attached format that (s)he
is not disqualified to. become a bank director in accordance with the
above mentioned fit'and ‘proper'test.

এ. The declaration shall have to be, signed by the concerned person
(candidate) and if elected it:shall have to be forwarded to Bangladesh Bank,
by the Chairman of the board of directors.

5. The above-mentioned. restrictions for qualifications of bank directors shall
be in addition to.any related laws/regulations for the time being in force.

Page [18

Annexure-A
Declaration
I do hereby declare ‘that ‘I am eligible to become a director of bank-

‘company as per the fit and proper test criteria mentioned. in the Guidelines to

Establisha Banking Company in Bangladesh. I further declare that-

a) I have not been convicted ‘in any criminal offence or involved in. any’
fraud/forgery, financial.crime or other illegal activities;,

b) There is no adverse opinion/findings regarding me in. any legal
proceedings,

০) I have not been convicted in regard to contravention of rules,
regulations and disciplines of the regulatory authorities relating to
financial sector;

d) Lhave.not been involved with a company/firm whose registration/license
has been revoked.or cancelled or which.has:gone into liquidation;

6) There are: no loans taken. by me or my allied concern from any bank or’
financial institution that have become defaulted;

fy I] have‘not been adjudicated a bankrupt.by.a court;

8g) My spouse, parents, children, brothers: and sisters or any other person
dependent:on me is‘not:a.director of this bank.

Dated: Signature:

( )

‘Countersigned:

( )
Chairman, Board of Directors
১০১- ১১১১১ ১ ক BANK, Ltd.
Page | 19