=== Advanced OCR Text Extraction Result ===
Original File: Financial Crime and Compliance_183.pdf
Extraction Method: Image-based OCR (pypdfium2 + Tesseract)
Language: bn+en
Extracted Characters: 398576
Processing Date: 2025-08-28 15:44:04
============================================================

: রে _ দে ০০০০ a | oll |
চল — দা াদরে।।
1. Butte 2B wags 11 4 " Masi f yo. He [: a Levey byt
তো ঢা 9 টৈ eat ; Bit > : ১১৬২৬ 2 ঢায চে মনো টে
| i SSE See সি a = SPE ০ TES TR SERS ee | | |
১ aol নে! রা ( : 2 কলা all না ; রা! 4 : . |
| ." 10117 ieee (Sa ee | 1
| | নো ডা Tre, | | fore yl
| | | দল | "| an “| 1 : - | নন self 11111 1 | | ,
| নাতো poe poss yt (711 | ৷ \ | |
I | |] | ol mt | il a : 11111. | woe রা
৷ et 111) a yo Hep day pede ee | ।
i! লালন Tere মো
bao), 0.7 . চ 7 না ॥
. ti.
co | ০ দশা LOU, সে Lee ৮১ eae eed ROS তার ০ 2 দিস Re ক অত এ ভেদে দে
| my SLM: ৬ pa Ror পা ফের শত শপে eet সো অনা the ও Sythe’ Me hath omen were peers fy
RASPES RAED R TOWER CAN ElGOn)s 05/22 Bin hrolle GarLGolam Dostorin Roads (Box CulveckRoad) Purina Patan DhakaslOug’
Fe ee pea ace yc এ
| । “Seige i ১ ত্য দে ;

Content
| A | Conceptual Issues and Terminology |
|B | Financial Crime in the Key Functional Areas of Banking |
| C___| Financial Crime Risk Assessment |
| _D__ | Prevention, Detectionand Reporting |
| E | Sanctions, Anti-Bribery and Corruption |
| _F __| Financial Crime Control (FCC) forNew Economy |
|G [Compliance মম»

Module A: Conceptual Issues and Terminology
A.1 Financial Crime
The term financial crime has 110 internationally accepted definition. Generally, financial crimes ‘are
defined as such criminal activities carried out. by individuals or criminal organizations to provide
economic benefits through illegal methods. The UK’s Financial Services and Markets Act 2000
(FSMA.2000), Séction.6(3) broadly defines:the term which include: ‘any offence involving fraud of
dishonesty; misconduct! in or misuse of information relating to, a financial market; or handling the
proceeds of crime’. In a, broad term it refers to any illegal activity that involves the use of financial
systems, institutions, or instruments for‘illicit purposes, typically with the goal of generating’ profits
for the perpetrators. Financial crimes can take many different forms, from money laundering to
fraiid, embezzlement, insider trading, and cybercrime.
These crimes are often committed by individuals or groups seeking to profit from illegal activities,
such as drug trafficking, human trafficking, or terrorism. Financial crimes can have serious
consequences. for individuals and society as a. whole, including economic instability, loss’ of public
trust.in financial institutions, and erosion of the rule of law.
A.1.1 Common Forms of Financial Crime
- Fraud Forgery
- Corfuption.and Bribery
- Tax Evasion
- Insider'Trading and.Market Manipulation
- Loan Scam
- Money Laundering
- Terrorist Financing
= Proliferation of Financing of WMD
- Online gaming and Bating
- ‘Hundi/Hawala
A.1.2 Key Stakeholders 01 Countering Financial Crime
০ ‘Reporting Organizations (ROs)
‘Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit (BFIU)
o Investigating, Agencies
o Anti-Corruption. Commission. (ACC)
o Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Bangladesh Police
© Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC)
o Customs Intelligence and Investigation. Directorate (CIID)
Page

© Central Intelligence Cell (CIC) of National Board of Revenue
০ Department of Narcotics.Control (DNC)
o Directorate of Environment
৭ Intelligence. Agencies
০ Regulatory Authority, like-
© Bangladesh Bank (BB)
© ‘Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC)
o Insurance Development.and Regulatory Authority (IDRA)
o NGO Affairs. Bureau
o Microcredit Regulatory Authority (MRA)
@ Department of Social Service
o Self-Regulatory Bodies
০ Different Ministries, like-
@ Ministry of Commerce
o Ministry of Finance
© ‘Ministry of Information. Technology and Communication
o Ministry of Telecommunication.
A.1.3 Financial Crime and Financial Institutions
Financial. institutions can be involved in financial crime. in three ways: as victim, as perpetrator, or
as an instrumentality. Under ‘the ‘first category, financial institutions can be subject’ to the different
types of fraud ‘including, e.g.;:misrepresentation. of, financial information, embezzlement, check and
credit card fraud, securities fraud, insurance fraud, and, pension fraud. Under the: second (less
common) category, financial institutions can commit different types of fraud on others, including,
e.g., the sale of fraudulent financial products, self dealing, and misappropriation of client funds. In
the third category are instances where financial institutions are used to keep or transfer funds, either:
wittingly or unwittingly, that are themselves the profits or proceeds of a crime, regardless of
whether the crime is itself financial in nature. One of the most important examples of this third.
category is money laundering.
A.2 Money Laundering (ML):
Money laundering (ML) ‘is a financial crime that. involves disguising the proceeds of illegal
activities such as drug trafficking, bribery, or fraud as legitimate funds. The goal is to make the
funds appear legitimate ‘so they can be. used. without detection. It can be defined in a number of
ways. But the fundamental concept of money laundering is the process: by which proceeds from. a
2 Page

সোা0108] 300%109-15 disguised ‘to conceal their illicit origins. Most countries ৪001090-00 the following
definition as recommended by Financial Action Task: Force (FATF) which was delineated in the
United. Nations Convention against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and. Psychotropic Substances
(1988) (the Vienna Convention) and the United. Nations Convention Against Transnational
Organized Crime (2000). (the Palermo Convention):

© The conversion or transfer of property, knowing that such property is derived from any
offense, e.g. drug trafficking, or offenses or from. an act of participation. in such offense or
offenses, for the purpose of concealing or disguising the illicit origin of the property: or. of
assisting any: person, who. is involved in the commission of such an offénse or offenses to
evade:the legal consequences of his actions;

০ The concealing or disguising the true nature, source, location, disposition, movement, rights
with respect to, or ownership of property; knowing that such ‘property is. derived from an.
offense or offenses or‘from an act:of participation in such an offense or offenses, and;

a The acquisition, possession, or use of property, knowing at the time of receipt that such
property was derived. from an offense or offenses or from. an act of participation in. such
offense or offenses.

The Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the international standard. setter for ‘anti-money
laundering (AML) and combating. financing of terrorism. (CFT) efforts, recommends that money
laundering should have criminalized in line with. the Vienna Convention and Palermo Convention.
Like other countries 00016 world, Bangladesh has criminalized money laundering in line with those
conventions. Moreover, Bangladesh also considers some domestic concerns like ‘smuggling of
money ‘or property from Bangladesh’ in criminalizing money laundering.
Section 2 (v) of Money Laundering Prevention Act (MLPA), 2012 of Bangladesh defined.
money laundering as follows:
i. knowingly moving, converting; or transferring proceeds of crime or property involved in an
offence forthe following purposes: -
(1) concealing or disguising the illicit nature, source, location, ownership or control of
the proceeds of crime; or
(2) assisting any person involved. in the commission of the predicate. offence to evade
the legal consequences of such offence;

11. smuggling money or property earned through legal or illegal means to a foreign country;

iii. knowingly transferring or remitting the proceeds of crime toa foreign country or remitting.
or bringing them into Bangladesh from a foreign country with the intention of hiding or
disguising, its illegal source; or

iv. concluding or. attempting to: conclude financial transactions in such a manner so as to

8 Page

reporting requirement under this Act may be avoided;
‘v. converting or moving, or ‘transferring property with the intention to instigate or assist. for
committing a predicate offence;
vi. acquiring, possessing or‘using any‘property, knowing that such property is the proceeds of a
predicate offence;
vii. performing such, activities so as to the illegal source of the proceeds of crime may be
concealed or disguised;
viii. Participating in, associating with, conspiring, attempting, abetting, instigating or counseling
to commit any offences méntioned above.
A.2.1 Stages of Money’ Laundering
Process of money laundering can be done through ‘three stages i.e. Placement, Layering and.
Integration. However, it is important to remember ‘that ‘it is not essential that money launderer will
follow all the tree stages in all, ML cases.
These stages of Money Laundering are briefly elaborated below:
i. The Placement Stage:
The placement stage represents the initial. entry of the proceeds. of crime as cash/cash equivalents
into the financial system. These illicit: proceeds may be placed in financial. system in number of
ways; for example:

© Cash Deposits in Bank Accounts/ Fixed Deposits

০ ‘Multiple Small. Deposits to Bank in the same account or in multiple accounts or Multiple
deposits under reporting thresholds

৩০ ‘Purchases of Foreign Currency Notes, Bonds and/ or Financial. Instruments etc.

০ Using third parties to: make deposits or Using Services of Traders who may also deposit
illegal money with their funds or using legitimate cash intensive businesses to co-mingle:
illicit funds with:the day's legitimate sales receipts, etc.

ii. The Layering Stage:

This stage of Money Laundering embodies ‘the process of separating the proceeds. of criminal
activity from their origin through. multiple unrelated transactions without. having economic value.
This is usually done by sophisticated layering of financial transactions that obscure the audit trail
and affect the link with original. crime. Layering of financial transaction may comprise the
following examples:

4[Page

০ Transfer/ movement of. funds from one account to others, from. one institution to others,
from one territory to others and/ or from one-country to others.

০ ‘Investing illicit funds with various business firms as an investor etc.

০ Temporary loan adjustments for self and associates.

o Investing illegal funds ‘in multiple investments i.e. in real estate, luxury items, valuables,
prize bonds, stock markets, etc.

iii. The Integration Stage

০ This stage expresses. the process of re-uniting the laundered money back into the legitimate
economy. This ‘is accomplished by conducting apparently legitimate transactions to disguise
the illegal origins of funds, allowing the laundering of funds to be disbursed back to the
criminals. There are many different ways, in which the laundered money:can be integrated.
back with the criminal; For Example:

০ Lending the funds back to the launderers

০ Repaying the proceeds to the launderer as apparently the payment against goods. supplied.
and services rendered.

০ Depositing the funds abroad. or‘as collateral for financing facility:

০ Investing in real sector or purchasing luxurious goods, car, apartment, etc.

দোআ আছো

A Typical Money
৫১ en) )
mie” ও Dirty Money
. Integrates into the:
= —= 1:11 ট্ রণ _ | Payment by 5 @®) Transfer
= 2) সা ৰং Company“Y" Gl ০৯১ on the
= = fa 1 চি Lin <i THR _ AB nN Integratio Falselnvaicet = 1, A Account
i 7১) (ioe eee NN ile Sora citi : “I
দু উজ |") lt a)
Purchases of Luxury Assets, eB ALN
. . ; [03100 ; pL! \
Financial Investments, ‘ ne ঙ i
Commercial/Industriallnvestm oman Ro
A.2.2 Additional Elements of ML Offences in Bangladesh
Section 2(v) of MLPA, 2012 meets: all the required elements. in criminalizing ML. offences in
Bangladesh, whoever it contains some additional elements considering the.local context like-

2 sub section 2(v) ii i.e smuggling money or property earned through legal or illegal means to
a foreign.country,,

2 sub section 2(v)iv' i.e concluding or attempting to conclude financial. transactions in. sucha
manner so. as'to reporting:requirement under this Act (MLPA 2012) may be avoided and

দ sub section 2(v) vi ic acquiring, possessing or using any property, knowing that such
property. is the proceeds 018 predicate offence.

A.2.3 Punishment for ML Offence in Bangladesh

Money laundering is a criminal offence under section 4(1) of Money Laundering Prevention Act,
2012; punishments for money laundering: are-

Punishments for Individual.

1. Any person who cominits or abets or conspires to commit the offence of money laundering,
shall be punished with imprisonment for a term of at, least 4(four) years but ‘not exceeding’
12(twelve) years and, in addition to that, a fine equivalent: to the twice of the value of the

6|Page

‘property involved in the offence or taka 10 (ten) lakhs, whichever is greater: but if fail to
pay the said fine then court may also add additional imprisonment for a term equivalent of
the fine.
2. In addition to any fine-or punishment, the court may pass an order to forfeit the property of
the convicted person in favor of the State which directly or indirectly involved in or related
‘with money laundering or any predicate offence.
Punishment for Entity
3. Any entity which, commits an. offence under this section shall be punished as per section 27,
sub-section (2) and with .a fine of not less than twice of the value of the property or taka.
20(twenty) lakhs, whichever is greater and in addition to. this the registration of the said.
entity shall be liable to be cancelled. But, if fail to pay the said fine then court may
imprisonment for a term equivalent of the fine to the.Proprietor, Chairman or director or any
other name mentioned of the entity.
A.2.4 Predicate Offences of ML in Bangladesh
Predicate offences are the offences. that generate proceeds of crime and those proceeds of crime:
laundered in different ways. Sub section 2(cc) of MLPA, 2012 define. predicate offences. as the
offences committed within or outside the country; the money. or property derived from 13 laundered
or-attempt to be laundered.
Inclusion of Predicate Offences
As per FATF standard.inclusion of predicate offences is done generally by two ways.
© One:is Listing, Approach-Bangladesh is following this approach.and
০ Second.is Threshold, Approach 1.6 based on the magnitude of criminal liability, severity and.
‘penal provisions..,
® Some countries are also following mixed approach i.e mix, of Listing and. Threshold.
Approach.
There are 29 offences included as Predicate Offences for money laundering in Section 2(CC) of
MLPA. Those are as follows:
1. corruption and bribery;
2. counterfeiting currency;
3. counterfeiting deeds and. documents;
4. extortion;
5. fraud;
age

6. forgery;

7. illegal trade of-firearms;

8. illegal trade in narcotic drugs, psychotropic. substances and substances causing intoxication;

9. illegal’trade in stolen and other goods;

10. kidnapping, illegal restrain and hostage'taking;

11.:murder, grievous physical injury;

12. trafficking of women and children;

13. black:marketing;

14. smuggling of domestic and foreign currency;

15. theft: or robbery or dacoity or piracy or hijacking. of aircraft;

16. human trafficking or obtaining money or attempt to obtain ‘money or valuable goods giving
someone false assurances of employment abroad;

17; dowry;

18. smuggling and offences related to customs and excise duties;

19. tax related offences;

20. infringement of intellectual property rights;

21. terrorism. or financing in terrorist activities;

22. adulteration.or the manufacture of goods through infringement of title;

23. offences relatirig‘to. the environment;

24. sexual exploitation;.

25. insider trading and market manipulation using price sensitive information relating to the
capital market in share transactions before it is published for general information to. take
advantage of the market and attempting to manipulate the market for personal or
‘institutional gain;

26. organized crime, and participation.in organized criminal groups; and

27. Racketeering.

28. Offences. that are subject to be trialed in the Cyber Tribunal established under Section 68 of
Information and.Communication Technology (ICT) Act, 20061

£ Section 2(00 (28) of the-said Act:has empowered Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit (BFIU), with the approval of
the Government, by notification in the: official Gazette, to include any other offence ৪5076010806 offence forthe
purpose.of this Act. With:the empowerment of the:said provision, BFIU has included the 02 (two) offences as
predicate offences:of ML through a gazette notification (SRO No 85-Ain/2023,.dated-23 May‘2023).

8[Page

29. Pornography”
A.2.5 Reporting Organizations (ROs)
There, are 17 (seventeen) types of Reporting Organizations. (ROs). Sub-section 2(w) of MLPA,
2012 includes following organizations as reporting organizations of BFIU:
(i) bank;
(ii) financial institution;
(i1i)insurer;
(iv)money changer;
(v) any company or institution which remits or transfers money or money value;
(vi)any other institution carrying out its business with the approval of Bangladesh Bank;
(vil) (1). stock: dealer-and stock broker,
(2) portfolio manager and merchant banker,
(3) securities custodian,
(4) asset.manager;
(viii) (1) non-profit organization (NPO),
(2) non-government organization (NGO),
(3) cooperative society;
(ix) real estate developer;
(x): dealer in precious metals or stones;
(xi) trust and company service: provider;
(xii) lawyer; notary, other legal professional. and accountant;
As per the provision of 2(w)(xiii) of MLPA, 2012 BFIU may include any other institution as
reporting organization with the approval of the Government from time to time by:notification.
A.2.6 Duties and Responsibilities of Reporting Organizations:
Section. 25(1) of MLPA state that “In preventing money laundering the reporting organizations
shall, along ‘with the duties and responsibilities specified by rules, comply with ‘the following, other
responsibilities, namely: -
1. ‘to maintain complete and correct information with regard to the identity of its customers
during the operation of their accounts;
2. if any account of.a customer is closed, to preserve previous records of such account and its
‘transactions for at least 5(five) years from the date of such closure;
* ibid
দ্রোহের আআ আমা

3. to provide with the information maintained under clauses. (a) and (0) to Bangladesh.
Financial Intelligence Unit ftom time to time, on its demand;

4. if any doubtful transaction or attempt of such transaction as defined under clause (n) of
section 2. is. observed, to report the matter ds ‘suspicious. transaction report’ to the
Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit immediately on its own accord.

A.2.7 Investigating, Agencies of ML Case

Money laundering case can be investigated. by one or more ‘than one investigating authority (joint.
investigation) based on related predicate offences. Money Laundering Prevention Rules (MEPR),
2019 specified the following authorities as investigative agencies:

a Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC)

এ Department of Narcotics Control (DNC)

‘© Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Bangladesh Police.

« Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC)

০৪ Bangladesh Customs

® National Board-of Revenue (NBR)

এ ‘Directorate of Environment

Agencies responsible for enquiry and. investigation of the offences described in Money Laundering
Prevention Act, 2012 are listed as. follows in ‘the schedule of Money Laundering Prevention Rules
(MLPR), 2019:
Serial | Predicate Offences Agencies responsible for enquiry and.
No investigation of the-offences set out.in concerned
Money Laundering Prevention Act.
Corruption anid bribery Anti-Corruption Commission.
2 Counterfeiting of currency Criminal Investigation Department (CID),
Bangladesh Police.
Counterfeiting of documents CID, Bangladesh Police
Trading of illegal weapons CID; Bangladesh. Police
Trading of Illegal drugs and | Directorate of ‘Narcotics Control, CID of
narcotics Bangladesh Police.
Illegal trade of stolen, goods and | Bangladesh Customs, CID, Bangladesh Police.
others.
10|Page

10: Abduction, illegal detention and | CID, Bangladesh Police
seizing
Murder, severe physical injury | CID, Bangladesh Police
Women and children trafficking | CID, Bangladesh Police
13 Smuggling National Board of Revenue, CID, Bangladesh.
Police
14 Local and. foreign currency | National Board of Revenue, CID, Bangladesh.
trafficking Police
15 Theft or robbery or piracy or | CID, Bangladesh Police
aircraft robbery’
Human trafficking CID, Bangladesh Police
18 Smuggling and custom related | National Board of Revenue, CID, Bangladesh.
offences Police
Tax related offences National Board of Revenue
Infringement of Copyright CID, Bangladesh Police
22 Adulteration or production of | CID, Bangladesh Police
goods by breaching right
23 Environmental crime Directorate of Environment, CID, Bangladesh.
Police
Sexual exploitation CID, Bangladesh Police
25 Insider trading and ‘market | Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission
manipulation
Taking money by threatening CID, Bangladesh Police
28* Offences that are subject tobe | CID, Bangladesh Police
trialed in the Cyber Tribunal
established under Section 68 of
Information and
Communication Technology
(ICT).Act, 2006
Pornography CID, Bangladesh Police
11] [Page .

* With the empowerment of Section 2(cc) (28) of MLPA 2012, these 02 offences have been as
predicate offences of ML through a gazette notification (SRO No 85-Ain/2023, dated-23 May
2023,

For terrorism. and. terrorist financing case Bangladesh. Police is the investigating agencies as per the
provision of Anti-Terrorism Act, 2009.

A.3 Bangladesh Financial. Intelligence Unit (BEIU)

Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit (BFIU) is the central agency to fight against money.
laundering (ML), terrorist financing (TF) and financing of proliferation. (PF) of weapons of mass
destruction (WMD). Established under the provision. of MLPA, 2002.as Anti, Money Laundering
Department, in June, 2002 and renamed as BFIU in 2012. It is responsible for analyzing Suspicious
Transaction/Activity Reports (STRs/SARs), Cash Transaction Reports (CTRs). and information.
related to ML, TE and PF received from reporting organizations. (ROs) and other soiirces.
Thereafter, BFIU ‘produces. intelligence and disseminate the same ‘to the relevant competent
authorities. The 10113 also empowered to supervise ML, TF and PF related activities of the ROs.
BFIU has also been entrusted with the responsibility of exchanging information related to ML, TF
and PF with its foreign counterparts.

A.3.1 Establishment and Nature of BFIU

BFIU was established as per. the provision of section 24 of MLPA, 2012. As:mentioned above for
shouldering the responsibilities mentioned in the MLPA, 2002. Bangladesh Bank: established Anti
Money Laundering Department (AMLD) in June, 2002 ‘and this AMLD was renamed.as BFIU in
2012. Section, 24.of MLPA, 2012 ensures the operational autonomy of BFIU. It states. that-

“(1)To exercise the powers and responsibilities.conferred by this Act there shall be a central agency
called Bangladesh Einancial Intelligence Unit, which shall

(a) have a separate seal and letter head pad;

(b) have its own office within Bangladesh, Bank premise;

(c) Bangladesh Bank shall provide: necessary office space, manpower, fund, administrative:
benefits and other ancillary requirements;

(d) There shall be a whole time Chief Officer of BEIU to be appoitited. contractually by the
Government through a scrutiny committee. headed. by the Governor, Bangladesh Bank
on certain terms and conditions and. with status equivalent to that.of Deputy Governor of
Bangladesh Bank;

(e) for all administrative affairs Chief Officer of BFIU shall take prior approval from
Governor, Bangladesh Bank;

12 Page

(f) for formulation and implementation of required policies and guidelines on AML &CFT
Chief Officer shall take prior approval of the Government;

(g) on request of Chief Officer of BFIU, Bangladesh Bank may depute required
officials/staff and, as per requirement, request the Government for officials/staff on
deputation from the Government or law enforcement agencies; and

(h) contractual consultant:may be appointed. in it on Chief Officer’s requirement.

(2) For the purposes of this Act, the governmental, semi-governmental, autonomous
organizations or any other relevant institutions or organizations shall, upon any request’ or
spontaneously, provide the Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit with the information preserved
or gathered. by them.

(3) For the purpose of this. Act, Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit:may, upon requést or if
necessary spontaneously provide money laundering and terrorist financing related information to
other government, agencies.

(4) The Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit shall provide with information relating: to
money laundering or terrorist financing or any suspicious transactions to the Financial Intelligence
Unit: of another country on the basis of any contract or agreement entered into with. that country
under the provisions of this, Act and may’ask for any such information from any other country.

(5) The Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit may also provide with such information to. the
Financial. Intelligence Units of other countries spontaneously where there is no such contract or
agreement under sub-section (4).”

A.3.2 Main Functions of BFIU
As per the provisions of MLPA, 2012 and Anti Terrorism Act (ATA) 2009, the main functions of
BEFIU are as follows:

e Receive Suspicious Traisaction/Activity Reports (STRs/SARs) from the: reporting
organizations and Cash Transaction Reports (CTRs) from banks and financial institutions; and
receive the complaints from different sources..

e Analyze the STRs/SARs from Reporting Organizations (ROs) and CTRs ftom banks and
financial institutions; and the complaints received from different.sources.

e Produce financial intelligence reports and disseminate those. ‘to. investigating ageficies for
further action(s).

13(Page

০ Maintain a database of all STRs/SARs; CTRs and related information.

০ Issue necessary directions and. guidance notes from time to time for reporting organizations to
prevent money laundering (ML), terrorist financing (TF) and proliferation. financing (PF)
activities.

০ Ensure compliance of the respective Acts and Rules/Regulations/Directives through onsite and.
off-site supervision of the reporting organizations...

e Monitor the implementation of UNSC Resolutions including UNSCR. 1267 and ‘its successors,
UNSCR 1373 and UN Security Council Resolutions related to ‘proliferation financing of
‘weapons of mass destruction.

e Impart. training to the officials of the reporting organizations, investigating authorities,
prosecutors, regulatory agencies and other related organizations or institutions.

০ Sign. Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with. foreign FIUs to exchange: financial
‘intelligence on ML, TF & PF.

e Provide and collect information to/from other FIUs under bilateral arrangements.

e Cooperate ‘and work together with various international organizations including FATF, APG,
EGMONT Group, World Bank, IMF, ADB, and UNODC regarding AML. & CFT issues.

° Perform secretarial job for UN bodies, National Coordination Committee (NCC) and. Working
Committee on AML & CFT (WC) and take necessary steps to implement the decisions taken.
in the committees.

« ‘Work as the secretariat of inter-agency Task Force for Stolen Asset:Recovery (StAR).

e Perform activities related to the Central Task Force for preventing illegal Hundi activities,
‘illicit flow of fund and money laundering and monitor implementation of the decisions. of the
meetings.

০ Arrange regular meeting with Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC), Bangladesh. ‘Police and
other relevant.agencies and monitor the implementation of the decisions of the meeting.

e Arrange regular meeting with various regulators like BSEC, IDRA, MRA, NGOAB and.
different Self-Regulatory Bodies (SRBs).

e Carry out other related functions to prevent and combat money laundering, terrorist financing,
and proliferation financing activities respectively.

০ Create public awareness against ML, TF & PF

A.3.3 Authorities and Responsibilities of ঢা,

BFIU’s authorities and responsibilities are mentioned in the MLPA, 2012, ATA, 2009 and Rules
there under. Section 23 of MLPA mentioned that authorities and responsibilities of Bangladesh.
Financial Intelligence Unit in restraining and preventing the offence of money laundering.
TO Rage

(1) For the purposes. of this Act, Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit shall have the following
authorities and responsibilities, namely: -

a) to analyze or review information. related to cash transactions and suspicious. transactions
received from any reporting organization. and information obtained. through any other sources
and to collect.necessary additional information relating thereto for the purpose of analyzing or
teviewing from the reporting organizations and maintain. data and information on. the same:
and, as. the case may be, provide with the said information to investigating agency or the
relevant law enforcement agencies for'taking-necessary actions;

৮) notwithstanding anything contained in any other law, obtain. necessary information or report
from reporting organizations;

c) an order may be issued to any reporting organization to suspend or freeze transactions of any
account for maximum of 7 (seven) times by 30 (thirty) days eachif there are reasonable
grounds to suspect that any money or property has been deposited into the account by
committing any offenceor money of an account has been or might: be used to commit:.a. crime
or‘an offence:

0) issue; from. time to: time, any directions necessary: for the prevention of money laundering to
‘the reporting organizations;

e) conduct on-site inspections on the reporting organizations, if necessary.

f), arrange meetings and seminars including training for the officers and staff of any organization
or institution, including the reporting organizations, considered necessary for the ‘purpose of
ensuring:proper implementation of this: Act by Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit;

g) Carry out any other functions including monitoring activities of the reporting organizations
necessary for the purposes of this.Act.

(2) If any investigating agency makes a request to provide. it. with any :information in. any.
investigation relating to money laundering or suspicious transaction, then Bangladesh Finaricial
Intelligence. Unit shall provide: with such ‘information where there is no obligation for ‘it. under any
existing law or for‘any other reason.

(3) If.any reporting organization fails to provide with the requested information timely under this
section, Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit may impose a fine on such organization which may
extend to a,maximum of taka 5 (five) lacs at the ‘rate of taka 10 (ten) thousand per day and if any
organization is fined more than 3(three) times in I(one) financial year, Bangladesh Financial,
Intelligence Unit may suspend the registration or license of the organization, or any of its branches,
sérvice cetiters, booths or agents for the purpose of closing. its operation within Bangladesh or, as
15 [Page

the case may be, shall inform the registration or licensing authority about. the fact so as to ‘the
relevantauthority may take appropriate measures against the organization.

(4) If any reporting organization provides with false information or statement. requested ‘under this
section, Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit may impose a fine on such organization. not less.
than taka 20 (twenty) thousand but not: exceeding taka, 5 (five) lacs and if any organization is fined.
more than, 3(three) times in l(one) financial year, Bangladesh. Financial, Intelligence Unit may
suspend :the registration or license. of the organization or any of its branches, service centers, booths
or agents for the. purpose: of closing its operation within Bangladesh or; as the case may be, shall
inform ‘the registration or licensing authority about the fact so as to, the relevant.authority may take
appropriate measures against the said organization.

(5) If any reporting organization fails to comply with any ‘instruction given by Bangladesh
Financial ‘Intelligence Unit under this Act, Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit may. impose a.
fine on such organization which. may extend to a maximum of taka 5 (five) lacs at. the rate of taka.
10 (ten) thousand per day for each of such ‘non-compliance and if any organization is fined more.
than 3(three) times in 1(one) financial year, Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unitmay suspend the
registration or license of the organization or any of its branches, service cénters, booths or agents
for the purpose of closing its operation within Bangladesh or, as the case ‘may be, shall inform the
registration or licensing authority about the fact so as to the relevant authority may take appropriate
measures against the said. organization.

(6) If any reporting organization ‘fails to comply. with any order for freezing or suspension. of
transaction issued by’ Bangladesh Financial. Intelligence Unit under clause (c) of sub-section (1),
Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit may impose a fine on such organization ‘not less. than the
balance held on that.account but not more than twice of the balance held. at the time of issuing the
order.

(7) If any person: or entity or reporting organization fails to pay any fine imposed by Bangladesh
Financial Intelligence Unit under sections 23 and.25 of this Act, Bangladesh Financial Intelligence
Unit. shall inform. Bangladesh Bank to recover the fine from accounts maintained:in the name.of the
relevant person, entity or reporting organization in any bank or financial institution or Bangladesh
Bank, .and in this regard if any. amount of ‘the fine remains unrealized, Bangladesh Financial
Intelligence Unit may, if necessary, make an application before the court for recovery and the court
may pass such. order as it deems fit.
TG Page.

(7A)While conducting enquiry‘and investigation of the offences under this Act an investigation
agency may obtain documents and information related. to the customer of a bank or financial
institution through an order by the competent.court or Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit.

(8) If any reporting organization is imposed fine under sub-sections (3), (4); (5) and (6),
Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit may also impose a fine not less than taka.10 (ten) thousand,
but not exceeding taka, 5 (five) lacs on the responsible owner, directors, officers and staff or persons
employed on contractual basis of that reporting organization and, where ‘necessary, may direct the
relevant. organization to take:necessary administrative actions.”

Section 25 (2) of MLPA

If any reporting organization violates the. provisions of sub-section (1), Bangladesh Financial.
Intelligence Unit may-

(a) impose-a fine of at least taka 50 (fifty) thousand but-not exceeding taka 25 (twenty-five) lacs on.
the reporting organization; and

(b): in addition to the fine mentioned in, clause (a), cancel the: licerise or the authorization for:
carrying out commercial activities of the said. organization or any ofits branches, service centers,
booths or agents, or as the case may’be, shall inform the'registration or licensing authority about the
fact so as to the relevant authority may. take appropriate measures against:the organization.
According to the provision of section 15 and 20A of ATA, 2009, authorities and
responsibilities of BFIU are:

(1) Bangladesh Bank. may take necessary steps to prevent and. identify any transaction carried out
by any reporting agency with intent to commit an offence under this Act and for this purpose it:
shall have the following powers and authority, namely:-

(a) to call for a report relating to any suspicious transaction from. any reporting agency, analyze or
review. the same and to collect additional information relating thereto for the purpose of analyzing
or reviewing the same and maintain record or database of them and, as the case may be, provide
with the said information or report to ‘the police or other concerned law enforcement: agencies for
taking necessary actions;,

(b) if there is reasonable ground, to suspect that a transaction is connected to terrorist activities, to
issue a written order to the respective: reporting. agency to suspend.or freeze transactions of that
televant. account for a period. not exceeding 30 (thirty) days and, if it. appeats necessary to réveal
correct. information relating to transactions of the said account, such suspension or freezing order
may. be extended for an additional term not exceeding 6 (six) months by 30 (thirty) days at a time;
(c) to monitor and supervise the activities of the reporting agencies;
BT Page

(৫) to give directions to the reporting agencies to ‘take ‘preventive steps. to prevent. financing of
terrorist activities and proliferation of weapons of'mass destructions (WMD);

(6) to monitor the compliance of the reporting agencies and to carry out on-site: inspection of the:
reporting agencies for carrying out any purpose of this Act, arid

(f) to: provide training to the officers and employees of the. reporting agencies for the purpose of.
identification of suspicious transactions and prevention of financing of terrorist;activities.

(2). Bangladesh, Bank, on identification of a reporting agency or any of 109 customers as being
involved in a suspicious transaction connected to financing of terrorist: activities, shall.inform the:
same to the police or-the appropriate law enforcement agency and provide. all necessary-cooperation.
to facilitate: their inquiries and investigations into the matter.

(3). If the offence is committed. in, another country or the trial of an offence is pending in another
country, Bangladesh Bank shall take steps to seize the accounts of. any person or entity upon
request of the foreign, state or pursuant to. ariy international, regional or bilateral agreement, United
Nations. conventions ratified by the Government of Bangladesh or respective resolutions adopted by
the United Nations Security Council.

(4). The fund seized. under sub-section (3) shall be subject to disposal by the concerned court or
pursuant to the concerned agreements, conventions or resolutions adopted by the United Nations
Security Council.

(5) The power and responsibilities of Bangladesh Bank under the provisions of ‘this. Act shall
be. exercised. by Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit (BEIU), and, if Bangladesh Financial
Intelligence Unit requests to. provide with any information under this Act, all the governmental,
semi-governmental or autonomous bodies, or any ‘other relevant institutions or organizations shall,
on such request or, as the case may be, spontaneously provide it with such information

(6) Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit shall, on request or, as the cases may be, spontaneously’
provide the financial intelligence units of other countries or any other similar foreign counterparts
with.any: information relating to terrorist.activities or financing of terrorist activities.

(7) For the interest of investigation relating to financing of terrorist activities, the law enforcement.
agencies’ shall have the right to access any document or file of any bank under the following
conditions, namely:- (a) according to an order passed by a competent court or special tribunal; or
(b) with the approval of the Bangladesh Bank.

(8) If any reporting agency fails to comply with the directions issued by Bangladesh Bank under
this section or knowingly provides any ‘wrong or false information or statement, the said reporting
agency shall be liable to ‘pay a fine, determined and directed by Bangladesh Bank, not exceeding
taka 25 (twenty five) lac, and Bangladesh Bank may suspend. the registration or license with intent.
to stop operation of the said agency or any of its branches, service centers, booths or agents within,
18 [Page

Bangladesh. or, as the case. may be, shall inform the registering or licensing authority about the
subject matter to take appropriate action against the agency.

(9) If any reporting agency fails to pay or does not pay any fine imposed by Bangladesh Bank.
according to sub-section (8), Bangladesh Bank may recover the amount from the reporting agency
by debitinig its accounts. maintained in any other’ bank or financial institution 0111) Bangladesh:Bank.
and in case of any unrealized. or unpaid. amount, Bangladesh Bank may, if necessary, apply before
the concerned court for recovery.

Section. 16 (3), (4) and (5) of ATA, 2009

(3). If any reporting agency fails to comply with the provision under sub-section. (1), the said
reporting agency shall be liable to ‘pay a fine, determined and. directed by Bangladesh Bank; not
exceeding taka 25 (twenty five) lacand Bangladesh Bank, may suspend. the registration: or license
with intent to stop operation of the said agency or any of its branches, service centers, booths or
agents within Bangladesh or, as the case may be, shall inform the registering or licensing authority
about the subject. matter to take appropriate action against the agency.

(4) If the Board of Directors, or in the absence of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive
Officer, by whatever name called, of any reporting organization fails to comply with the provision.
of sub-section (2), the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the Chief Executive Officer, as: the
case may be, shall be liable to pay a fine, determined and. directed by Bangladesh Bank, not
exceeding taka 25 (twenty five) lac; and Bangladesh Bank may remove the said person from his
office or, as the case may be, shall inform the competent: authority. about the subject matter to take
appropriate action. against the person.

(5) If any reporting agency fails to. pay or does not pay any fine imposed by Bangladesh Bank
under sub-section (3), or-if the Chairman of the Board of Directors, or the Chief Executive Officer,
by whatever name called, fails to pay or does not pay any fine imposed by Bangladesh, Bank under
sub-section (4), Bangladesh Bank may recover the amount from the reporting agency or from the
account. of the: concerned person by debiting any account maintained by ‘him in any bank or
financial institution or in Bangladesh Bank, and in case. of any unrealized .or ufipaid amount,
Bangladesh.Bank may, if necessary, apply before the concerned court for recovery.

Section 20A (1) 0) of ATA, 2009

to issue directions, from, time to time, to. the reporting agencies by Bangladesh Financial
Intelligence Unit:for-proper implementation of this section.

Section 20A (5) of ATA, 2009

If any reporting agency fails to comply with the directions issued by Bangladesh, Financial
Intelligence. Unit under this. section, or fails to take. immediate freezing action required under this
section, the. said reporting agency shall be liable to pay a fine, determined and directed by
Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit, not exceeding taka 25 (twenty five) lac but not less than. 05
TO Page.

(five) lac or twice the value of the suspected fund, whichever is greater, and Bangladesh Bank may
also suspend the registration or license with intent to stop operation of the said. agency or any of its
branches, service’ centers, booths or agents within. Bangladesh. or, as the case may be, shall inform.
the registering, or licensing authority about the subject matter to take appropriate action against the
agency.

A.8 Financial Action Task Force (FATF)

The pace of international activity in, the anti-money laundering (AML) field accelerated in 1989
when, the Group of Seven nations launched the Financial Action Task Force: (FATE) at its annual
economic: summit in Paris. With France serving as its first chair, this multinational group started.
working toward.a coordinated effort against international money laundering. Originally referred, to
as the G-7 Financial Action Task Force, today FATF serves as the vanguard in‘promulgating AML
guidance to governmental bodies ‘around the globe. The International Monetary Fund. (IMF) and the
World Bank also offer important perspectives to the field. FATF has brought significant changes’ to
the ways that Banks and businesses around the world conduct their affairs. It-also has brought about.
changes in laws and in governmental operations. The intergovernmental body is based at the
Organization for Economic:‘Cooperation and Development (OECD) in Paris, where. it has its own
secretariat.

A.8.1 FATF Objectives

FATF’s stated objectives are to “set standards and promote effective: implementation of legal,
regulatory and operational measures for combating money laundering, terrorist financing and other
related threats to the integrity of the international financial system. Starting with its own members,
the FATF monitors countries’ progress in implementing ‘the FATF Recommendations; reviews
money’ laundering and terrorist financing techniques and counter-measures; ‘and, promotes the:
adoption and implementation. of the. FATF Recommendations globally.”

FATF fulfills these objectives by focusing on several important. tasks, which include the

following.

a) Spreading the AML message worldwide: The group promotes the establishment of a global
AML, and anti-terrorist financing network based on expansion of its membership, the
development of regional AML. bodies in various parts of the world and cooperation with other
international organizations.

b) Monitoring implementation of the FATF Recommendations among its members..

In 2011, FATF concluded. its third round of mutual, evaluations of all its members. The
process. began in. 2004. For its fourth round. of mutual evaluations, which started in 2014, it
20 Page

adopted a new approach for assessing technical compliance with the Recommendations and
assessing if a member’s AML/CFT system is effective.

The new Methodology, which was released in, 2013, is informed by the experience of FATF,
FATE-style regional bodies (FSRBs), the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World
Bank in conducting assessments of compliance with earlier versions of the FATF
Recommendations. Collectively, the. technical compliance and effectiveness assessments
provide an integrated.analysis of the extent to which the country is compliant with the FATF
Recommendations and how successful it is in maintaining a strong AML/CFT system. It
focuses on the. following:

(a) Technical Compliance Assessment: Evaltiates the specific requirements of the FATF
Recommendations, including how. a member. relates them to its relevant legal. and institutional
framework, and the powers and procedures of its competent authorities. The focus is on the
fundamental building blocks of an AML/CFT system. For each. Recommendation, assessors
reach a conclusion about whether a country complies with. the FATF standard. The result is a
rating. of five possible levels of technical. compliance.

* Compliant

- Largely compliant
«Partially compliant
* Non-compliant

* Not.applicable

(b) Effectiveness Assessment: Seeks to assess the adequacy of a-member’s implementation of the
FATF Recommendations and identifies the extent to which.a member achieves a defined set of
outcomes that are central to a. robust AML/CFT system. The focus. is on. the extent to which
‘the legal, and. institutional ‘framework of the member is producing the expected results. For the
purposes of ‘the 2013 Methodology, FATF defines effectiveness as “the. extent to which the
‘defined outcomes are achieved.” Effectiveness is evaluated on ‘the basis of 11 Immediate
Outcomes (IO).

1. Money laundering/terrorist financing (ML/TF) risks are known and actions
coordinated to combat: or thwart the proliferation of ML/TF.
2; International:cooperation provides, actionable information to use against criminals:
3. Supervisors regulate financial institutions and; nonBank financial institutions (NBFIs)
and their risk-based AML/CFT programs.
4. Financial institutions and. NBFIs apply preventative measures and report: suspicious”
21|Page

transactions.

5. Legal persons are not misused for ML/TF and. beneficial ownership information is
avail- able to authorities.

6: Financial intelligence information is used. by authorities in. money laundering ‘and
teirorist. financing investigations.

7. Money laundering offenses are investigated and. criminally prosecuted, and sanctions
are imposed,

8: Proceeds of crime are confiscated.

9. Terrorist financing offenses are investigated and criminally prosecuted, and sanctions
are imposed.

10. Terrorists and terrorist organizations are prevented from. raising, moving :and using
money and are not permitted to abuse nonprofit. organizations (NPOs).

11. Persons and. organizations involved in the proliferation of weapons of mass
destruction.are prevented from. raising, moving and using money.

Each of the 11 Immediate Outcomes (IO): represents a key goal of an. effective AML/CFT

system. They also feed into the three Intermediate Outcomes that represent major

thematic goals of AML/CFT measures.

01. Policy, cooperation and, coordination to mitigate money laundering and terrorist
financing.

02. Prevention of proceeds’ of crime entering into the financial system and reporting of
such when they do.

03. Detection and disruption of of ML/TF threats. For each individual Immediate
Outcome, assessors reach. conclusions about. the. extent: to which..a country is. (0115
not). effective and.'provide an, effectiveness rating based on the extent to which the
core issues and.characteristics are addressed.

o High level. of effectiveness.
০. Substantial level of effectiveness
০. Moderate level of effectiveness
০ Low level of effectiveness
22(Page .

If a country has not reached a high level of effectiveness, then assessors give reasons why it: fell
below the standard and recommend. measures the country should take to improve its ability to
achieve the outcome.
FATF does not. have: the power to impose fines or penalties against recalcitrant. member-nations.
However, in 1996, FATF launched a policy for dealing with. nations that. fail to comply with the
FATF Recommendations that 10 describes: as “a graduated approach aimed at. enhancing ‘peer
pressure.” This graduated approach ranges. from.requiring the country to deliver a.progress report at
plenary meetings to suspension. of:membership.
c) Reviewing money laundering trends and countermeasures,
Faced with a financial system that has few geographic limitations, operates. around the clock. in
every time zone .and maintains the pace of the global. electronic highway, criminals are constantly
searching for new points of vulnerability and adjusting their laundering techniques: to respond. to
countermeasures introduced by FATF members and other countries. .As such, FATF members are
continually gathering information on money laundering trends to ensure the organization’s
Recommendations remain up to date.
Since its establishment, FATF has focused its work on three main activities:

1. Standard setting,

2. Ensuring effective compliance with the standards,

3. Identifying money laundering and terrorist financing threats.
These activities will remain at the core of FATF’s work for the remainder of the mandate. Going
forward, FATF will build on the work and ‘respond to new and emerging threats, such as
proliferation financing and vulnerabilities in new technologies that could destabilize the
international financial system.
A.8.2 FATF 40 Recommendations
A key element of FATF’s efforts is its detailed list of appropriate standards for countries to
implement. These measures are set out in. the, 40 Recommendations, which were first..issued. in
1990. and. revised in 1996, 2003 and 2012. FATF .has also issued various Interpretative Notes
designed. to clarify’ the application of specific Recommendations and, to provide additional
guidance.
After the events of. September 11, 2001, FATF adopted. and. published the FATF IX. Special
Recommendations on terrorist financing. The first eight Special Recommendations were adopted
on October 31, 2001, and the:ninth on October'22, 2004. The 2012 revisions. combined the IX
Special Recommendations into the 40 Recommendations.

23(Page

FATF’s Recommendations have become the world’s blueprint for effective national and
international AML and CFT-related controls. The IMF and the World Bank have recognized the
FATF ‘Recommendations as ‘the international standard for combating ‘money laundering and
terrorist financing. In 2002, the IMF, the World Bank and FATF agreed to ‘a common methodology.
to assess compliance with the FATF Recommendations.
The 40 Recommendations. provide a complete set of countermeasures against money laundering
and. terrorist financing, covering

e The identification.of risks and development of appropriate policies;

-e =©Thecriminal justice system and law enforcement;

¢ The financial system and its regulation;

‘© The*transparency of legal persons and arrangements; arid.

e International cooperation:
FATF recognizes that because countries have different legal and. financial systems, they cannot use
idetitical measures to fight money laundering and. terrorist financing. The Recommendations set
minimum standards of action for'countries to implement according to their'particular circumstances.
and constitutional frameworks. With its 2012 revision, FATF introduced the risk assessment, as the
first recommendation, underscoring that assessing risk 1s the first step in combating money
laundering and terrorist financing.
With its 2003. revisions. of the 40 Recommendations, the FATF expanded ‘the reach of its global.
blue- print for cracking down on illicit movements of funds. It introduced. substantial changes
intended to strengthen measures to combat monéy laundering and terrorist. financing, which
established further enhanced standards by which countries can. better combat money laundering and
terrorist financing.

The most important changes made‘to the Recommendations in 2003: were-as follows.

'০ Expanded coverage to ‘include terrorist financing

০ ‘Widened the categories of business that. should be covered. by national laws, including real

estate agents, precious metals dedlers, accountants, lawyers and trust services providers
-e Specified compliance procedures on issues such as: customer identification and due diligence,
including:enhanced identification measures ‘for higher risk: customers: and transactions

‘e Adopted.a clearer definition of money laundering predicate offenses

০ ‘Encouraged prohibition of'so-called shell ‘Banks, typically set up in offshore secrecy havens
24 Page

and consisting of little more than nameplates and mailboxes, and urged ‘improved
transparency of legal persons and. arrangements:
6 Included stronger safeguards, notably regarding international cooperation in, for example,
terrorist financing investigations.
In 2012, the Recommendations were revised again, incorporating the IX: Special
Recommendations on terrorist financing into the 40: Recommendations. The most important
changes in this revision were
Topic Recommendations
AML/CET Policies and Coordination 1-2
« Assessing’risks and applying a risk-based approach
* ‘National cooperation and coordination,
Money Laundering and Confiscation 3-4 |
* Money laundering offenses
‘© Confiscation and provisional measures
Terrorist Financing and Financing of Proliferation 5-8
‘© Terrorist financing offenses
* Targeted financial sanctions related. to terrorism and terrorist
financing
-« Targeted financial sanctions related to proliferation
+ Non profit.organizations
IV Financial and Non financial Institution Preventative 9-23
Measures
‘© Financial institution secrecy laws
+ Customer due diligence.and record-keeping
« Additional measures for specific customers. and ‘activities
Reliance, controls and financial groups
‘ Reporting of suspicious transactions.
'*. Destgnated nonfinancial businesses and professions
V Transparency and Beneficial. Ownership of Legal Persons and = [24-25
Arrangements
- Transparency and beneficial ownership of legal persons
* Transparency and beneficial ownership of legal arrangements
25|Page

VI Powers and Responsibilities of Competent Authorities and Other [2-35
Institutional Measures
* Regulation and supervision
* Operational and law enforcement
-© General requirements
* Sarictions

VII International Cooperation 36-40
¢ International instruments
‘© Mutual legal assistance.
© Mutual legal assistance regarding freezing and. confiscation
+ Extradition.
'$. Other forms. of international cooperation

Some highlights of the 2012 revision of the 40'Recommendations are as follows.

০ Risk-based. approach: Countries should start: by identifying, assessing and understanding’
the money laundering and terrorist ‘financing risks they face. Then they should take
appropriate measures to: mitigate the identified risks. The. risk-based. approach allows:
countries to allocate their limited resources in a targeted manner in line with their own
particular circumstances in order to increase the efficiency of preventative measures.
Financial institutions should also use the risk-based approach to identify and mitigate the
risks they-face.

০ Designated categories of offenses: The Recommendations specify crimes, called.
“designated categories of offenses,” that should serve as money laundering predicates (1.০.
crimes that offenders attempt to conceal through financial subterfuge that ‘should
constitute: precursory offenses to money laundering). Countries should also put. in place
provisions to allow for the confiscation of the proceeds of crime or otherwise prevent
criminals from having access to. their criminal proceeds.

eo Terrorist financing and financing of proliferation: Countries should criminalize
terrorist financing, including the financing of terrorist acts, organizations. and individual
terrorists, even if no terrorist activity can be directly attributed to the provision of
financing. Countries should impose: sanction regimes that will allow them to freeze. the

assets of persons designated by the United Nations Security Council for involvement in.
terrorism or the proliferation of weapons of ‘mass. destruction: Countries should also
26 [Page

establish sufficient controls to mitigate the misuse of nonprofit organizations to provide
support to terrorists.

© Knowledge and criminal liability: The Recommendations include the concept that
knowledge required for the offense of money laundering may be inferred. from objective
factual circum- stances. This is similar to what is known in some countries as “willful
blindness,” or. deliberate avoidance of knowledge of the facts. In addition, the
Recommendations urge that. criminal liability—or civil or administrative liability, where:
criminal liability is not possible—should apply to legal persons.as well.

০ Customer due diligence. (CDD) measures: Financial institutions should conduct
customer due diligence when they

— establish business relations;

— carty out an occasional transaction or a wire transfer above the specified threshold;

— have a.suspicion of'money laundering or terrorist financing; and

— have doubts about the veracity or adequacy of previously obtained customer
identification information.

Financial institutions must, using a risk-based approach

— identify the customer and verify that customer’s identity using reliable, independent
source documents, data or information. Establishing accounts in anonymous or obviously
fictitious names should be prohibited;

— take: reasonable measures to verify the. identity of the beneficial owner such. that the
financial institution is satisfied that it knows who the beneficial owner is. For 1০83]
persons and arrangements, this should include understanding the ownership and. control
structure of the customer;

— understand and, as appropriate, obtain information on the purpose and intended nature of
the business relationship;

— conduct ongoing due diligence on the business relationship and scrutinize transactions
undertaken in the course of that relationship to ensure that the transactions are consistent’
with the institution’s knowledge of the customer, the customer’s business and risk‘profile,
including, where necessary, the source. of‘funds;

— maintain records. of the above. customer information aswell. as all transactions to enable
them to comply with requests from competent:authorities;

— rely on other parties to conduct customer due diligence in.certain cifcumstances; however,

27(Page

the relying institution. remains liable for compliance. with. completing: ‘the required
customer due diligence; and.

— establish group-wide AML program for financial groups.

o Additional customer due diligence on specific customers and activities: Some
customer types and.activities pose heightened risks, especially the following.

— Politically exposed persons (PEPs): Appropriate steps must be taken to identify PEPs,
including obtaining. senior management approval. of such. business relationships, taking’
measures to establish the sources of wealth and funds and. conducting ongoing
monitoring.

— Cross-border correspondent Banking: Appropriate steps must be taken. to understand
the respondent institution’s business, reputation, supervision and AML controls; obtain.
management approval of such relationships; document the responsibilities of each
institution; mitigate risks associated ‘with payable-through accounts and ensure accounts
are not:established for shell Banks.

— Money or value transfer services (MVTS): Countries. should ensure that MVTS are
licensed or'registered and subject:to appropriate AML requirements.

— New technologies: Countri¢s and financial institutions should assess the risks associated
with. the development of new products, business. practices, delivery mechanisms and
technology. Financial. institutions should, assess these risks ‘prior to launching new
‘products; they should also take appropriate ‘measures to mitigate. the risks identified. It
also includes Virtual Asset (VA) and Virtual Asset Service. Provides (VASPS).

— Wire transfers: Countries should require financial institutions to obtain and send
required and. accurate originator, intermediary and. beneficiary information with wires.
Financial. institutions should monitor wires for incomplete information and take
appropriate. measures. They should. also monitor Wires for those: involving partiés
designated by the United Nations Security Council and take freezing’ actions or otherwise
prohibit the transactions from. occurring.

‘« Suspicious transaction and/or activity reporting: Financial institutions must report to the
appropriate financial intelligence unit! when they suspect. or have reasonable grounds to
suspect that funds are the proceeds of a criminal activity or are related to terrorist financing.
The financial. institutions and the employees reporting such suspicions should be protected
from liability for reporting. and. should be prohibited from disclosing that they have reported
such activity:

28 (Page )

০ Expanded coverage of industries: The Recommendations expand the fight against money
laundering by adding new nonfinancial ‘businesses and. professions to the roster of financial
institutions that are the usual. focus of AML efforts. Expanding the scope of AML scrutiny is
a key area where many governments have been aiming their AML arsenal in response to an
increased flow of illicit money. These designated. ‘nonfinancial businesses and professions
(DNFBPs) include
— casinos when customers engage in ‘financial transactions equal. to or above a designated

threshold. At a mintmum, casinos should be licensed; authorities should prevent criminals
from participating in casino:operations and should supervise casinos to ensure compliance
with.requirements to combat money laundering and terrorist financing;

— real estate agents when they are involved in. transactions. for clients concerning buying
and selling properties;,

— dealers in precious metals and stones ‘when. they engage in any cash transaction with a
customer at or above.a designated threshold;

— lawyers, notaries and independent legal professionals and accountants when they prepare
or carry out transactions for clients concerning buying and selling real estate; managing
client money, securities or other assets; establishing or managing Bank, savings or
securities accounts; organizing contributions for the creation or management of
companies; creating, operating or managing legal persons or arrangements and buying
and selling businésses; and

— trust and company service providers when they prepare or carry out transactions for a
client concerning certain activities (e.g., when acting as a formation agent of legal
‘persons, acting as a director or secretary of a company, acting as 4 trustee of an express
trust-or acting as a nominee shareholder for another, person).

FATF also designated specific thresholds. that. trigger AML scrutiny. For example, the

threshold that financial institutions should monitor for occasional customers is $15,000; ‘for

casinos, including internet casinos, it: is $3,000; and for dealers in precious metals, when
engaged in any cash transaction, it is $15,000.

‘¢ Transparency and beneficial ownership of legal persons and. arrangements: Countries
should take ‘appropriate measures to prevent the misuse of legal persons for money
laundering or terrorist financing, including ensuring information about the beneficial
ownership and control of such legal persons.is available to competent authorities, particularly
with regard to legal persons. who can issue bearer shares or have nominee shareholders or
directors.

EEE ৷ জোক ৷

০ ‘Powers and responsibilities of competent authorities: Countries, should oversee financial
institutions to ensure they are implementing the FATF Recommendations and are not owned
by or controlled by criminals. The supervisors should be given sufficient resources and
powers to. effectively oversee financial institutions within their jurisdictions. Designated
nonfinancial businesses and people should be: subject to oversight as well when, they engage
in, certain financial activities. Countries should establish financial intelligence units and
provide law enforcement and investigative authorities with sufficient resources and powers to
‘investigate money laundering and terrorist financing and to seize or freeze criminal. proceeds
where found. Countries should implement measures to detect the physical cross-border
movement of currency and bearer-negotiable instruments. The authorities should provide
meaningful statistics, guidance and. feedback on, AML/CFT systems.

-¢ International cooperation: Several Recommendations deal with strengthening’ international
cooperation. Countries should rapidly, constructively and effectively provide the widest
possible range of mutual legal assistance in money laundering and terrorist. financing
investigations, freezing and. confiscation of criminal proceeds, extradition and in other
mattérs.. Countries. should. ratify United Nations conventions against significant crimes. and
terrorism:

A.8.3 FATF Members and Observers

FATF currently comprises. 37 member jurisdictions. and 2 regional organizations, representing

most major financial centers in all parts of the globe.

A.8.4 Non-Cooperative Countries and territories (NCCTs)

Since ‘its inception, FATF has had a practice of “naming and shaming” countries that it

determines maintain inadequate anti-money laundering controls or ate not cooperating in the

global AML/ CET efforts. For years, EATF was. engaged in an, initiative to identify ‘non.
cooperative countries and. territories (NCCTs) in the global fight against money laundering. It
developed a process ‘to seek out. critical weaknesses in specific jurisdictions’ anti-money

laundering systems that obstruct international cooperation in. this area. On February 14, 2000,

EATF published an initial report.on non-cooperative countries and territories that set out the 25

criteria that: help identify :relevant detrimental. rules and practices and. that. are consistent with the

40 Recommendations.

The goal, of the NCCT process was to reduce the vulnerability of the financial system. to money

laundering by ensuring that all financial centers adopt and implement. measures for the

prevention, detection and ‘punishment of money laundering according to internationally
recognized standards. The next step in the NCCT initiative was the. publication in June 2000 of
30|Page .

the first review identifying 15 NCCTs. The NCCT process ‘ultimately involved. 24: jurisdictions,
including up to 19 jurisdictions at one time, until the jurisdictions eventually took the necessary
steps to get off the list. The NCCT list was:replaced by a new process when FATF started
identifying jurisdictions with defictencies.in their AML/CFT regimes. This new FATF process
was in response to the G-20 countries’ efforts to publicly identify high-risk jurisdictions and to
issue regular updates on jurisdictions with strategic deficiencies. Today, FATF identifies these
jurisdictions in two public documents issued three times a.year.
A.8.5 High-risk and other monitored jurisdictions
The FATF identifies jurisdictions with weak measures to combat money laundering and terrorist
financing (AML/CFT) in two FATF public documents that are issued three times a -year. The.
EATF’s process to publicly list countries with weak: AML/CFT regimes has proved effective. As
of October‘2018, the FATF has reviewed over 80 countries and publicly identified 68 of them. Of
these 55 have since made the necessary reforms to address their AML/CFT weaknesses and have
been removed from the process. High-risk jurisdictions have significant strategic: deficiencies. in,
their regimes to counter:money laundering, terrorist financing, and financing of proliferation. For
all countries identified as high-risk, the FATF calls on all members and urges: all jurisdictions to
apply enhanced due diligence, and in the most serious cases, countries are called upon to apply
counter-measures to protect the international financial system from the ongoing money:
laundering, terrorist. financing, and:proliferation financing (ML/TF/PF) risks emanating from the
country. This' list is often-externally referred to as.the “black list”. Currenitly‘Democratic People's
Republic of Korea (DPRK) and Iran fall under the high-risk Criteria. On the other hand, Albania,
Bahamas, Barbados, Botswana, Cambodia, Ghana, Iceland, Jamaica, Mauritius, Mongolia,
Myanmar, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Syria, Uganda, Yemen. and Zimbabwe falls under the
Jurisdictions with strategic deficiencies as on.February 2020.
FATF’s Public Statement identifies
‘© Countries or jurisdictions with strategic deficiencies that are so serious that FATF calls on its
members and non-members to apply counter-measures; and
০ Countries or jurisdictions for which the FATF calls on ‘its members to apply enhanced due
diligence measures proportionate to. the risks arising from the deficiencies associated with the
country.
Improving Global AML/CFT Compliance: Ongoing Process identifies countries or
jurisdictions with strategic weaknesses in AML/CFT measures but that have provided a high-
level.commitment to an action plan developed with the FATF.
831 [Page

০ FATF encourages its members to consider the strategic deficiencies identified within these:
jurisdictions.

¢ Ifa country fails to make sufficient or timely progress, FATF can, inerease its pressure on the:
country. to maké meafiingful progress by moving it to the Public Statement.

‘© The document also provides information on jurisdictions no longet subject to FATF’s
ongoing global AML/CFT compliance process. Typically, a. country is identified to have:
made significant progress in improving its AML/CFT regime when it establishes a legal and
regulatory framework to meet its commitments in its action plan regarding the previously
identified strategic déficiencies. However, the country must continue to work with the
appropriate FATF-style regional body on addressing the items noted in its:mutual evaluation
report.

A.8.6 FATF-Style Regional Bodies

There are nine FATF-style:regional bodies (FSRBs) that have similar form, and functions to those

of FATF. They are also considered EATF associate members. In setting standards, FATF

depends on input from the ESRBs as much as ‘from its own members; however, FATF remains
the only standard-setting body.

The following high-level principles apply for both FATF and FSRBs:

-e Role: FSRBs play an essential role in identifying and addressing AML/CFT technical
assistance needs for their individual members. In. those FSRBs‘that carry out this coordination
work, technical assistance necessarily complements. mutual evaluation and follow-up
processes by helping jurisdictions to implement FATF standards.

-¢ Autonomy: FATF and ESRBs. are free-standing organizations that share the common goals
of combating money laundering and the financing of terrorism and. proliferation and of
fostering effective AML/CFT systems.

০ Reciprocity: FATF and ESRBs operate on the basis of (mutual. or joint. or common)
recognition :of their work, which implies that) FSRBs and FATF put in place similar
mechanisms for effective participation and involvement in each other’s activities.

Because FATE and FSRBs are part of a larger whole and. the success or failure of one

organization can have an effect on all organizations, protection of the FATF brand. is in the

common. interest of both FATF and FSRBs. Many FATF member countries are also members of
the nine FSRBs.
i) Asia/Pacific Group on Money Laundering (APG)
ii) Caribbean Financial Action Task Force (CFATF)
32(Page

ii) Council of Europe Committee of Experts on. the Evaluation of Anti-Money Laundering’
Measures and the Financing of Terrorism (MONEYVAL, formerly PC-R-EV)
1v) Eurasian Group (EAG)
v) Eastern and.Southern. Africa Anti-Money Laundering Group (ESAAMLG)
ছা) Financial Action Task Force of Latin America (GAFILAT), (formerly known. as Financial
Action Task Force on Money Laundering in South America (GAFISUD)
vil) Intergovernmental Action Group against Money Laundering:in West Africa (GIABA)
viii) Middle East and North Africa-Financial Action Task. Force (MENAFATF)
ix), Task,Force on Money Laundering in Central Africa (GABAC)
A.8.7 ASIA/PACIFIC GROUP ON MONEY LAUNDERING (APG)
The APG, an autonomous regional anti-money laundering body, was established in February. 1997
at the Fourth Asia/Pacific Money Laundering Symposium. in Bangkok with 13 founding members,
where it adopted its Terms of Reference. Bangladesh is the founding member of APG. Currently:
APG has. 41 member Countries/Jurisdictions.
The Terms. of Reference were substantially revised in July 2012. to recognize ‘that the FATF’s
revised 40 Recommendations constituted the new international standards on combating money
laundering and the financing of terrorism and proliferation. The Terms included.a commitment that
APG members would. implement these recommendations according to: their particular cultural
values and constitutional frameworks. It also said that to ensure:a global approach ‘member of the
APG would work.closely with EATF.
° Provides'a focus for cooperative AML/CET efforts in the Asia/Pacific region;
° provides.a forum ‘in which
/ regional issues can be discussed and experiences shared, and
Y operational. cooperation among member jurisdictions is encouraged;
° facilitates the: adoption and implementation by member jurisdictions of internationally
accepted AML/CFT measures;
‘eo enables regional and jurisdictional factors to be taken into account in the implementation of
international, AML/CFT measures;
° encourages jurisdictions, to implement AML/CFT initiatives, including more: effective mutual
legal assistance; ‘and
33(Page

০ Coordinates and ‘provides practical support, where: possible, to member .and observer
jurisdictions in the region, when.requested.

The APG is voluntary and cooperative in:nature. The work done by the APG and its procedures are
decided by mutual, agreement among its members. The group was established by agreement among
its members and is autonomous. It is not derived from an international treaty and is not part of.any
international organization.
The APG also uses similar mechanisms to those used by FATF to monitor and facilitate progress.
The APG and FATF have reciprocal rights of attendance at each, other’s meetings, as well as
reciprocal sharing. of documents. However, the APG, as with other autonomous AML bodies,
determines: its own policies and practices. It is. not'a precondition for participation in the APG that
AML/CFT laws already be enacted.
The APG has seen. its membership grow from its original 13 founding members in 1997 to 41
members as of: July 2015. APG members include: Afghanistan, Australia, Bangladesh, Bhutan, the
Kingdom of ‘Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, Canada, China, the Cook Islands, Fiji, Hong Kong
(China), India, Indonesia, the Republic of Korea (South Korea), Japan, Lao ‘People’s: Democratic
Republic, Macao (China), Malaysia, Maldives, The Marshall Islands, Mongolia, Myanmar, Nauru,
‘Nepal, New Zealand, Niue, Pakistan, Palau, Papua New Guinea, The Philippines, Samoa,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Chinese Taipei, Thailand, Timor Leste, Tonga, the United
States of America, Vanuatu and Vietnam.
The APG Secretariat is headquartered in Sydney, Australia. The APG has a permanent. and a
rotating Co-Chair. The permanent chair is held by Australia, as host and supporting member.
jurisdiction of the Secretariat, and the rotating chair is appointed for a two-year term by the
membership. The current Co-Chairs are Deputy Commissioner Ian McCartney (Australia) and Mr.
Abu Hena Mohd. Razee Hassan (Bangladesh).
A.8.8 Egmont Group of FIUs
In. 1995, ‘a:number of national financial ‘intelligence units (FIUs) began working together in an
informal organization known as the Egmont Group (named for the location of the first meeting, the
Egmont-Arenberg Palace in Brussels). The goal of the group is to provide.a ‘forum for EIUs around.
the world to improve. cooperation in the fight against money laundering and financing of terrorism.
and to foster the: implementation of domestic programs in this field. At present Egmont Group is a
united body of 168 Financial Intelligence Units (FIUs). The Egmont Group provides a platform for
the secure exchange of expertise and ‘financial intelligence to combat money laundering and
terrorist financing (ML/TF). This is especially relevant as FIUs are uniquely positioned to
cooperate and support national and ‘international, efforts to counter terrorist’ financing and.are the
দ্রোহের আআ ৷ ৷৷ বস্]স্

trusted. gateway for' sharing financial information domestically and internationally in accordance
with global Anti Money Laundering and.Counter Financing of Terrorism (AML/CFT) standards.
The Egmont Group continues to support the efforts of its international partners and other
stakeholders to give effect to the resolutions and statements: by the United Nations Security
Council, the Financial. Action Task Foree (FATF) and the G20 Finance: Ministers. The Egmont
Group :is able 0 add value to the work. of member FIUs by improving the. understanding of ML/TF
risks amongst its stakeholders. The organization is able to draw upon operational experience ‘to
inform policy considerations; including AML/CFT implementation and AML/CFT reforms. The
Egmont Group is the operational arm of the international.AML/CFT apparatus.

The Egmont-Group recognizes sharing of financial intelligence is of paramount importance and has
become the comerstone of the international efforts. to counter ML/TFE. FinancialIntelligence Units
(FIUs) around the world are obliged by international AML/CFT standards to exchange information
and engage in international cooperation. As ‘an international financial intelligence forum, the
Egmont Group both facilitates and prompts this amongst its member FIUs. BFIU has achieved. the
membership of Egmont Group in July, 2013.

A.9 National Coordination Committee (NCC) on AML& CFT

For preventing money laundering and combating financing of‘terrorism through policy formulation,
overseeing the activities of relevant stockholders and coordinating the national AML & CFT effort
Bangladesh established National Coordination-Committee (NCC) in 2010. Composition.of NCC is-
Honorable Minister, Ministry of Finance - Convenor

Chairman, Anti-Corruption Commission - Member

Principal Secretary, Prime Minister's Office - Member

Attorney General for Bangladesh, - Member

Governor, Bangladesh, Bank. - Member

Secretary, Finance Division, Ministry of Finance - Member

Secretary, Bank & Financial Institution Division,

Ministry of.Finance - Member:

Secretary, Legislative and Parliamentary Affairs Division,

‘Ministry of Law, Justice and Parliamentary Affairs. - ‘Member
Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs - ‘Member
Secretary, Ministry of Foreign. Affairs. - ‘Member

Secretary, Ministry of Housing and ‘Public Works - Member

Secretary, Ministry of Commerce - Member

Chairman, National.Board of Revenue - Member

Chairman, Sécurities and Exchange Commission - ‘Member .

35|Page

Head of BFIU - Member Secretary.
(2). The power and functions of the National Coordination Committee. - The: power and
functions of the National. Coordination Committeé shall be as follows:

(a). formulating: nationally important policies for preventing money laundering and terrorist
financing;

(b) providing necessary guidance to:all.concerned in implementing the policies made;

(c) ensuring coordination among different.Ministries or Agencies;

(d) reviewing the position of Bangladesh in complying international. standards for anti-money:
‘laundering and combating financing of terrorism, and ensuring compliance of the standards;

(e) forming different working committee from time to time for special purpose and approving
terms of reference of the committee: and giving guidance to implement the terms of
referénce;

(00 collecting: any information, or report related to money laundering and terrorist financing
from any relevant Ministry, Division, Agency or Institute and making necessary decision.on
that basis;

(g) taking any initiative and making decision as considered by the Committee; and.

(h) the Committee can co-opt any-related individual.

(3) The Committee: shall meet at least: twice in.a year and the Convener of this Committee may ask
for:meeting as and. when necessary.

(4):BFIU will provide secretarial. assistance to the Committee.

A. 10 Central and Divisional Task Force on AML & CFT

To prevent money laundering, smuggling of money/asset and illegal hundi activities, two-layered
task, forces i.e. the. Central Task Force and Divisional Task Force have been formed in. 2002 and
restructured in 2017. The Head. of BFIU is the convener of the Central Task: Force whereas the
Director of BFIU serves as its member secretary. The organizations having ‘representative in. the
Central Task.Forcé include-

= National Board.of Reventie (NBR),

০ Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC),

« Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC),

০ Department of Cooperatives,

® Insurance Development and Regulatory Authority (IDRA),

2 NGO Affairs Bureau (NGOAB),

দ ‘Department of Narcotics Control (DNC),

® Registrar of Joint Stock Companies and Firms (RJSC),

36|Page

Police Headquarters,
o Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP),
= Criminal Investigation- Department. (CID) and
® supervision-related departments of Bangladesh Bank
2 8 (eight) representatives from scheduled banks,
a 2 (two) representatives from financial ‘institutions,
2 2 (two) representatives capital market intermediaries,
= 2 (two) representatives non-government organizations (NGOs),
এ 2 (two) representatives insurance companies and
‘2-2 (two) representatives cooperative societies
The Central. Task ‘Force works to coordinate the activities of different investigative agencies, law
enforcement agencies, prudential regulators of reporting organizations and the BFIU. It is‘mandated
to convene. quarterly meetings to discuss the progress achieved. in implementing its: goals.
Functions of Divisional Taskforce:
এ Coordination With the activities ofthe divisional Law Enforcement Agencies, Investigating
agencies, Regulatory Authorities of the Reporting Organizations (ROs) and BFIU.
« Reviewing progress of divisional activities related to AML/CFT by different stakeholders
‘Reviewing progress of actions about the reported incidents including the smuggling of
money, currency, gold and other valuable itenis, Child and Humian Trafficking, Trafficking
ete.
Taking initiatives to identify. and eradicate the: barrier of implementing the AML/CFT.
activities.
Chattogram, Khulna, Maymensing, Rajshahi, Sylhet Rangpur and Barisal Divisional Taskforces are:
headed by the respective office Heads ০0019 divisional offices of Bangladesh Bank. The followings
are the members of the Divisional Task Force:
1) The Head, Concerned Divisional Office of Bangladesh. Bank,
2) Representative, office of Divisional :Commissioner,
3) Representative, Divisional/District Office of Anti Corruption Commission,
4) Representative, Divisional Office/Commissionarate of Bangladesh Customs;
5) Representative, Divisional Office/Commissionarate of Income Tax,
6) Representative, the Department of Social Service,
7) Representative, the Department of Cooperative,
8) Representative, the RJSC,
9) .Representative, DNC,
10).Representative, Special Branch of Bangladesh Police,
837 Page

11)7২6016311816, Metropolitan Police,

12) Representative, CID,

13) Manager of Sonal. Bank PLC,

14) Manager of Rupali Bank Ltd,

15) Manager of Agrani Bank Ltd.,

16).Manager of Janata Bank Ltd,

17) Manager, Bangladesh.Krishi, Bank:Ltd/Rajshahi Krishi Unnayan Bank Ltd.

18) Four (04) Representatives from the Commercial Banks nominated by the respective:
Divisional Office of Bangladesh Bank

19)Qne: (01) Representative from the Financial Institutions nominated by the respective
Divisional Office of Bangladesh Bank

20) One (0.1) Representative from. the NGOs nominated by: the respective Divisional Office of
Bangladesh Bank

Functions of Divisional Taskforce:

০ Coordination with the activities of the divisional Law Enforcement Agencies, Investigating
agencies, Regulatory Authorities of the Reporting Organizations (ROs) and Bangladesh
Bank.

= Reviewing progress of divisional activities related to AML/CFT by different stakeholders

‘9 Taking initiatives to identify and eradicate the barrier of implementing the AML/CFT
activities.

2388 [Page

Module B: Financial Crime in the Key Functional Areas of Banking

B.1 Financial Crime in General Banking
Banking is the: inevitable part of an economy and, plays a major contribution towards socio-
economic development ofa country. The sector is considered as life blood. of the economy as well.
As one of the most important sectors of the financial system, it forms the core of the money market.
and plays very dynamic role:in mobilizing:resources for productive investments in a.country,. which,
in turn contributes to economic development. An efficient. and stable banking system is the
prerequisite for over-all development of the country.
Because of their diversified’ products and, complex nature of transaction, banks bear some inherent
vulnerabilities and risks of money: laundering. and terrorist. financing. The second National Risk.
Assessment (NRA) of Bangladesh has identified banks as the most vulnerable sector of ML&TF
which stated that ‘as the principal gateway to financial system, banks face high probability. of being:
threatened by. criminals attempting to: launder illicit fund.’
Economic: and financial, crimes ‘are: global problems today especially different forms of asset
misappropriations and cybercrimes became grave concerns both at operational and policy levels.
According to the most recent Global Economic Crime Survey (2016) of the Pricewaterhouse
Coopers (PwC), more than one in three organizations report being’ victimized by economic crime;
and close to half the organizations surveyed believe ‘that local law enforcement is ‘not adequately
resourced to investigate economic crime, leaving the responsibility for fighting economic crime on.
other organizations.
Any bank :is likely'to become vulnerable to financial crimes ‘involving various parties - customers,
employees, external organized crime. groups. or influential sections and those with whom banks has
business dealings. Such activities are often associated with money laundering, embezzlement,
evasion. of sanction, and illegal transfer of funds for tax avoidance and financing. terrorism. If the
perpetrators get advantage of deficiency in bank management, the risks become even higher.
Several drivers including globalization, the proliferation of banking channels; ‘rising transaction,
volumes and technological advancements have introduced new opportunities for financial crimes.
As the case of the banking sector of developed and developing economies, banking, sector of
Bangladesh. is increasingly facing the difficulties of financial crimes. In. spite of some notable
improvement in the loan default status over the years, some banks. have still been struggling with.
high volume of non-performing loans (NPL) when cyber frauds and other’ forms of ‘sophisticated
financial crimes are.adding to:the burdens of the banking sector.
B.1.1, Cheque related Frauds

39(Page

Cheque related frauds ‘are the most.commonly experienced fraud incidences in Bangladesh: Cheque
frauds are mostly committed through the alteration in the material parts of a cheque, such as, date,
amount, signature. This type of fraud may also occur due to manipulation of chequebook.Fake
cheque category is: followed by signature forgery, amount manipulation, FDR 0800, cheque book
fraud, etc.

Some of the:‘most common methods of cheque fraud ‘include:

e Forgery: This occurs when someone alters a check or creates a fake check using someone
elses account information...

¢ Paper hanging: This occurs when an account holder fills out a.check knowing they don’t
have the funds to cover it, then takes advantage of the “float” time between, when the check,
15 written and when it is deposited.

e Check kiting: Similar to paper hanging, this occurs when a check is written. from an.
account: without ‘sufficient funds, but the amount is added to the account before deposit to
cover the missing funds.

e Counterfeiting: This occurs when someone. creates a fake check that appears. to be
legitimate.

০ Chemical alterations: This.occurs when a fraudster erases the ink on.a check using special
chemicals, allowing them to'write new fraudulent information.

e Stolen checks: This occurs when. someone steals a check and. alters the payee and/or
amount before cashing or depositing it.

° Check washing: This occurs when someone erases the ink on a check and changes the
‘payee: and/or amount before cashing or-depositing it.

¢ Alteration of amount: This occurs when someone alters the dollar amount on-a check.

০ Post-dating: This occurs when someone writes a check with a future date, ‘in order to make
‘the check appear to be valid later.

Check fraud can happen in a variety of ways, including through mail theft, online scams, and the
use of skimmers at ATMs or point-of-sale-terminals.

B.1.2 Loan Related Financial. Crimes

Most of the loan related frauds are committed by creating loan in the name of non-existent
borrowers. or fake borrowers. Other loan frauds .are related to documentation, fund diversion,
collateral. valuation, directed lending, fake title deed, change in loan limit and expiry date, étc. in
the context of banks are not generally maintained and reported, and are not recognized as financial
crimes.
40 [Page

Loan related financial crime may happen in different.of ways, like-

‘© ‘Loan fraud or loan scam

= ‘Loan scam related money laundering

2 Loan or Credit banked money. laundering
B.1.2.1 Credit back money laundering
Credit back money laundering (CBML) is defined as the process of disguising the proceeds of
crime and moving value through the credit transactions or credit. facilities in an attempt. to
legitimize ‘their illicit origins. This method of money laundering involves ‘cleaning’ of money’
obtained from, predicate offences to become visible: to have: been derived. from legal. activities.
Under credit-backed money laundering, criminals borrow their own. illicit money. It is. usually
executed through the creation-of credit agreement: between the criminal.and a third party.
The common. techniques which are. used in CBML: process are offshore corporations, front
companies; shell companies, phantom mortgage, fund. diversification, over valuation of primary
securities, over’valuation of collateral securities, using fictitious assets as security, accommodation
bill, using beneficial owner, willful,defaulter etc.
Bangladesh faces numerous’ challenges to prevent. CBML due to involyement.of multiple parties in.
the credit processing. Skilled manpower is required. to. deal with credit. related. activities like
borrower selection, assessment of the borrower’s business;, scrutiny of various documents related. to
primary and collateral securities, analysis of financial statements, legal formalities etc. In
Bangladesh there’ is: limited, credit specialists who: are able to understand and handle. the credit
dealings very well. Willful defaulters are another challenge: ‘Lack of effective Management
Information System (MIS) and a.central database for credit defaulters increases the risk of CBML.
Lack of adequate: customer due diligenice/enhanced. due diligence (CDD/EDD) measures on the
underlying credit facilities; collusion between credit. approval authorities and ‘the credit customers;
weak compliance culture of Banks/NBFIs; weak corporate governance; hindrance of
implementation. 01 quick legal. action. against defaulters are also challenges for preventing credit
backed money laundering.
B.1.2.2 Potential Red Flags: Credit Backed.Money Laundering.
[Page

Red flag means. a potential. signal that helps to financial entities. to be careful about the clients’
behavior and. their nature of transactions whether the clients are involved in any form of money:
laundering. There are many red flags related to CBML but the following are the most:common.
® Unwilling to submit-required documents for credit facilities;
০: —using front:and shell companies;
০ loan repayments by third-parties;
‘8 ‘loan proceeds. used 00 purchase property in the name of a.third party;
a formation ofa new company in the name of employees;
® creation of forced.loan without valid-reason;
= customer requests to disburse. loan by issuing cheques in favor of another bank/Fls/third.
parties;
© arge-cash transaction inconsistent with.customer’s business/profession;
= huge credit balance:in the Joan, account;
« transfer of funds between. irrelevant businesses;
০ ‘multiple online deposit/withdrawal from irrelevant locations;
‘2 making loan decisions and then cancelling immediately and asking for‘refund of documents;
s adjustment of long terms loan like home loan within short time;
® customer suddenly pays off a large classified. loan with no plausible explanation of source
of funds;
= offering third party’s property as collateral security;
দ counterfeited documents submitted for credit facilities;
a frequently attempt to enjoy Excess Over Limit.(EOL) facility;
= diversification of credit (fund) facility;
5 ‘willful déefaulter;
‘2 making pressure to enhance credit limit which is not viable according to the volume of
business;
০ willing to pay highest.profit/ interest-rate without any bargaining;
= purchase DD/PO or EFT/RTGS by using credit facilities to different parties who have ho
business relationship with the client;
০৮ over valuation of primary security;
© over valuation of collateral security; frequently enjoying Secured Over Draft (SOD) facility
against new hi gh.valued. term. deposits;
© proposal for credit facility for investment in luxurious products and antiques items;
© application for credit facility to investment in. movable commodities like, gold, diamond and.
gems;
® credit cardholder uses card for purchasing luxurious products frequently;
42[(Page

‘2 excess amount deposited in credit. card than outstanding amount and then claim the:
additional amount via cheque or Pay Order;

০ loan secured. by deposits or other-readily marketable assets, such as securities.
B.1.2.3 Tactics to Prevent: CBML.
Applying Risk Based..Approach (RBA) for credit customers, checking and verifying customers’
background, nature of business, net: worth,. beneficial owner, analyzing of the purpose of the loan,
conducting borrower due, diligence (BDD),monitoring credit transaction profile (CTP), introducing
three lines of defense, ensuring good corporate governance, strengthening institutional. & regulatory
frameworks, avoiding of undue ‘influence at the approval stage of credit, arrangement of proper
training and awareness among the bankers and the related ‘parties may help‘to prevent CBML.
B.1.3. International trade related financial Crime
The international trade system is clearly subject to a wide range of risks and vulnerabilities that can
be exploited by criminal organizations and terrorist financiers. International trade related frauds may
take different forms, suchas, over invoicing, under invoicing, non-repatriation of export proceeds.
As regards. nature of international trade related frauds, approximately 50: percent of the total frauds
of this nature are committed through fake documents and another 50 percent through fake
foreign demand draft. In. several ‘instances, banks' of the country have been facing tunes because of
the non- performance or breach of contracts by the traders; however, these are not ‘included ‘in the
data as crimes provided by the banks. Moreover, though ‘money laundering instances in the
context of Bangladesh are mainly trade based, banks do not report on the issue. These cases are
generally unearthed by the competent authorities. Most common form. of international trade related
financial crime is trade based:money laundering.
B.1.4 Trade Based Money Laundering
It is argued worldwide that almost 80 percent of the money laundering occurred trough international
trade operation, which is generally known as ‘Trade Based‘Money Laundering (TBML)’. The FATF
has. defined TBML as the process of disguising the proceeds of crime and moving value through the
use: of trade’ transactions in an attempt to legitimize their illicit origins. In practice, this can be
achieved through the misrepresentation of the ‘price, quantity or quality of imports or
exports. Moreover, trades-based money laundering techniques vary in complexity. and are frequently
used in combination with other money laundering techniques to further obscure the money trail.
The basic techniques of'trade-based money laundering include:

a Over-.and under-invoicing of goods and services;

43(Page

দ Multiple invoicing of goods and services;
= Over-.and under-shipments of goods and services; and
a Falsely described goods and service
০ Phantom Shipment
B.1.4.1 Over- and Under-Invoicing of Goods and Services
Money laundering ‘through. the over- and under-invoicing of goods and services, which is one of the
oldest of fraudulently: transferring value across borders, remains a.common practice today. The ‘key.
element of ‘this technique. is the misrepresentation of the price of the good or service ‘in, order to
transfer.additional value between the: importer and exporter.
By invoicing the good or service at a price below the “fair market” price, the exporter .is able to
transfer value to the importer, as the payment for the good or service will be lower than ‘the value
that the importer receives when it is sold on the open market. Alternatively, by invoicing the good.or
Service at a:price above 006 fair market price, the exporter is able to receive value from the impofter,
as the payment for the good. or service: is. higher than. the value that the importer will receive when it
is Sold on thé open market.
Over- and Under-Invoicing of Goods - An Example
Company A (a foreign exporter) ships 1 million widgets worth $2 each, but invoices Company B (a colluding domestic
importer) for 1 million widgets at a price of only $1 each. Company B pays Company A for the goods by sending ‘a wire
fransfer for $1 million. Company B then sells the widgets on the open market for $2 million and:deposits the exira. $1
million (the difference between the invoiced price and the “fair market® value) into a bank account to be: disbursed
according to Company A’s instructions:
Exporter ships 1 million widgets @ $2.each
_, Company B Comper = ——
malate =e
Home country Foreign.country’
importer temits payment for1 million widgets @ $1 each
Altematively, Company C (a domestic exporter) ships 1 million widgets worth $2 each, but invoices Company D (a
colluding foreign importer) for 1 million widgets at a price of $3 each. Company D pays Company C for the goods: by
sending a wire transfer for $3 million. Company C then pays $2 million to its suppliers and deposits the remaining
$1 million (the difference between the invoiced price and the: “fair market’ price) info a bank account fo be disbursed
according to Company D’s instructions.
B.1.4.2 Multiple Invoicing of Goods and Services
44|Page

Another technique used to launder funds involves issuing more than, one invoice for the same
international trade transaction. By invoicing the same good or service more than once, a. money
launderer or terrorist financier is able to justify multiple payments for the same shipment of goods
or delivery of services. Employing a number of different financial institutions to make these
additional payments can further increase:the level of complexity surrounding such transactions.
In. addition, even if a case of multiple payments relating to the same shipment of goods or delivery
of services is detected, there are a number of legitimate explanations for such situations including
the amendment of payment terms, corrections to previous ‘payment instructions or the payment of
late fees. Unlike over- and under-invoicing, it should be noted that there is no need ‘for the exporter
orimporter to misrepresent:the price of the good or service on the commercial invoice.
B.1.4.3 Over- and Under-Shipments of Goods and Services
In addition to manipulating export and import prices, a money launderer can overstate or understate
the quantity of goods being shipped or services being provided. In the extreme, an exporter may-not
ship any goods at all, but: simply collude with an importer to ensure that: all shipping and customs
documents associated with. this so- called “phantom shipment” are routinely processed. Banks and
other financial. institutions may unknowingly be involved in the provision of trade financing for
these phantom shipments.
(Overstand Under: সস
Company:E (a domestic‘exporter):sells\1 ‘million: Widgets to. Company F* (arcolluding foreign: importer): at'a:price of;
না চল বই ই AS তেনে | তেও, Be টে ৩১ eet তে বে, নিতে এ Bet pt
s2smillion:: Company: F:then‘sells:the.widgets-on:the: open: market*for.$3'imillion:and:deposits.the:extra:$1:million:
মাদার গা involcedsquantity.:and“thesactual-quantity):Intoxasbanksaccount:toxberdisbursed:
lmporteriemits payment fort million widgets @ $2 each
Ss
| নয ডা
সা aes টস one og
AE ই 1$1:1711101-15477010077077-:2000179140170209179725োোিট লা সু
ডে Gq সা মম ET ee oS ii Eig Zax
Home couritty, "i Foréign:couniry:
FExporterships:1.5 million widgets’ @ $2 each
‘Alternatively; CompanysG (a*foreignsexporter)::sells1::million*widgets to; Company. 3H; (acolluding ‘domestic
Importer) atia:price of. 92 each but only: ships.000,000 widgets: Company. pays Company: G forthe: goods: by.
Sending a wire transfer’for'$2 million: Company; G:then:pays:$12million to: itsysupplierssand deposits,.the!
remaining:${:million® (thezdifference: between thesinvoiced quantityand: thevactual: quantity)’ intova:bank:account’to,
PIRES SST ARS SENN ক ঢা টা POAT EATS
‘be:disbursed:according to: Company-H:s'instructionss
B.1.4.4 Falsely Described Goods and Services
45|Page

In, addition to manipulating export ‘and import: prices, ‘a. money launderer can misrepresent the
quality or type of a good or service. For example; an exporter may ship a relatively inexpensive
good and falsely invoice it.as a more expensive item or an entirely different item. This creates a
discrepancy between what appears on.'the shipping and customs documents and what ‘is actually
shipped. The use of false: descriptions can also be. used. in the: trade in.:services, such. as financial
advice, consulting services and market research. In practice, the fair market value of these services
can present additional valuation difficulties.
সেট বত RE ডে. = So
inalsely Described:Goods:“jAn:Example:
Company:1'(a.domestic:exporter)'ships1 Millisn:gold widgets worth: $3:each:to: Company Ji(a:colluiding
foreignilmporter), butiinvoices:Companyss:for:1 million;silver;widgets«worth:s2ceach. Company’ pays
‘Company.t forithe:goods:by sendingya: wire transtér for: $2:million: ‘CompanyzJ:then:sells:thesgold;widgets:on
Ane topen market for. $3 ‘millonanid: deposits: thejextra’ 1: mhillion’ ((heedifference:betweeni:thé Involcevalue: arid
..__ Hmiporter remits payment for; 1 million SILVER widgets worth $2-eachi
।॥ রা To pes Sry TKS MeN এ.
লা |‘ চা 1 মা ই দ্য :
WA | L [না টা Oe =
০০০০ | ০০
Home country, আন country!
‘Exporter: Ships'4 million: GOLD widgets worth:$3/each!
EASY ELGSAN aad EN SE বট টব ক নাম IIa SERN Ta মদ ক Ce
‘Alternatively; Company's (@ foreign exporter) ships 1 million: bronze. widgets: worth. 91 each; to. Company. [i (a
colluding.domestic:importer); butsinvoices Company, L'for“t: million; silver-widgets. worth e2:each:.Company, E
Soe PSS ০১ ORG a RSE রাগে কৃ দেন ক ত্র eG তে ১ গাও)
19800016/5:810:000091ভ 01098111101 millioni(the-differéncesbetween the invoiced value-and'thezactual
Wale) inte aibahk account to:be disbursed according to: Company: L'stinstrictionss
Ss Siu FS
B.1.4.5 Phantom Shipment:
Without conducting any actual trade i.e export or import of goods and services ‘fund. may. transfer
from, one jurisdiction to another jurisdiction by producing face shipping documents. It’s generally
happened within related parties. For this collaboration of exporter and importer as well as customs
officials are essential.
B.2 Handling Financial Crime in. the Banking Sector
Under the provisions of the clause 23(1)(d) of Money Laundering Prevention Act, 2012 and the
clause 15(1)(d) of Anti-Terrorism. Act, 2009, instructions are issued for all the scheduled. banks
operating in Bangladesh to comply with Money Laundering Prevention Act, 2012. and Anti-
Terrorism Act, 2009 and the ‘related provisions of the‘rules issued under those. acts.
B.2.1 AML/CFT Compliance Structure in. Banks:
46|Page

B.2.1.1 Policy manual for the Prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing:
Every bank must have its own policy manual that must conform to international standards, laws and.
regulations in, force in Bangladesh and instructions issued by Bangladesh Financial Intelligence
Unit: (BFIU) on preventing money laundering and terrorist financing; and that policy manual must
be approved by 18 Board of Directors or if nécessaty, by the topmost Management Committee.
Bank shall bring this policy manual to the knowledge of all concerned persons and take ‘necessary
initiatives to implement it. As part of its own risk management, Bank shall also review this policy
manual time to time-and shall amend/retouch, if necessary.

B.2.1.2 Declaration of Commitment by the Management Authority on Prevention of Money
Laundering and Terrorist Financing:

1) Board of Directors, Chief Executive and other Higher Officials of every bank, in light of
their ‘roles and responsibilities described in. the above-mentioned laws and regulations on.
ML/TF, shall persist to make the organizational compliance ‘arrangement strong to prevent
money laundering and terrorist financing.

2) The Chief Executive of the bank shall declare specific and effective commitment on yearly
‘basis. 00 811 the officers/staffs on the prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing;
‘properly instruct them to implement ‘that commitment and shall ensure overall,
implementation of the compliance issues.

B.2.1.3 Appointment of Compliance Officer and Others:

1. To keep the banking sector free from Money Laundering and Terrorist.Financing risk and for the

proper compliance of all existing acts; rules and the ‘instructions mentioned in circulars. and

guidelines issued by BFIU time. to time, the following arrangements shall be in. place in every bank:

(a) Under the leadership of a ‘Higher Official’ in head office, every bank shall set ৮0 ৪ ‘Central

Compliance Committee (CCC)’; the: said Committee shall. directly report to the Managing
Director or the. Chief Executive Officer of the bank. The mentioned ‘Higher Official’ shall
be called as the “Chief Anti Money: Laundering Compliance Officer (CAMLCO)’. In this
case, designation of the ‘Higher Official’ shall not be lower than two steps from the
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the bank. ‘In case of foreign bank, the said
‘Higher: Official’ must. be a member of Top Management Committee. BFIU must be
informed immediately if the CAMLCO is changed. Furthermore, before.assigning any other
duty to the CAMLCO, the: Management, Authority: of the bank needs to be affirmed:that the
prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing activities. of the bank. will not be
hampered due to this.

aT Page

(b) To perform the secretarial. duties of Central Compliance Committee and execute the
activities. for compliance on the prevention money laundering and terrorist financing, there
shall be ‘Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist Einancing: Department’ (whatever the.
name may be titled) with. adequate officials considering the number. of branches, extent and
periphery. of business, number of customers and institutional risk etc. Deputy Chief Anti
Money Laundering Compliance Officer (DCAMLCO). shall perform duties as the Head of
the said department. Note that, an official no lower than the designation of ‘Deputy General
‘Manager’ or ‘Senior Vice President’ can.be appointed as DCAMLCO.

(c) Central Compliance Committee shall formulate organizational strategy and program. to
prevent money laundering. and terrorist financing in accordance with the own policy of the
bank and, will evaluate. the: same from time ‘to time. Under the supervision of the Central
Compliance Committee and the CAMLCO, ‘Anti-Money Laundering and Terrorist:
Financing Department’ will ensure: the implementation of the program annually on the
prevention of:money laundering and terrorist financing.

(d) The CAMLCO and the DCAMLCO should have, sound knowledge on existing laws, rules,
instructions issued by BFIU from time to time and relevant international standards related to
anti-money laundering and.combating terrorist financing.

(e) Terms of reference of ‘Anti, Money Laundering ‘and Terrorist Financing Department” and.
the duties and responsibilities of Central Compliance Committee, its members, the
CAMLCO and. the DCAMLCO shall have to be defined-specifically.

(f) Central Compliance Committéé shall be comprised of at least 7 members; where the head.
or higher officials, from different departments of the bank. (e.g: Human Resource Division,
Credit Division, Retail and Corporate Banking Division, Foreign. Exchange Division,
Operation Division, Card Division, IT Division ete or similar divisions): including
CAMLGO and DCAMLCO will be the member's. But, any official from. Internal. Audit:
Department cannot be the member of Central Compliance Committee. The Central
Compliance Committee and the Internal Audit division shall perform the anti money’
laundering and ০০100810108 terrorist financing related responsibilities bestowed on them as
two completely separate entities.

(g) Central Compliance Committee shall arrange at least 4(four) meetings annually-on quarterly
basis. However, the committee can convene any’ meeting. at’ any time:‘when. necessary. In
‘that'meeting, after assessing overall compliance status of the bank,on anti-money laundering:
and combating terrorist financing, the committee shall take necessary decision and. provide
instructions (0:09 followed.

88 [Page

2. The Central Compliance Committee shall submit Half-Yearly. report (January-June, July-
December), to the Chief Executive Officer and/or where ‘necessary, to the Board. of Directors
for notification of and direction, containing the steps taken by the bank: on combating Money
Laundering and Terrorist Financing, its implementation progress and the. recommendation in
this regard. The items mentioned. in paragraph 8.3 of this circular as well as if any action is
taken by BFIU on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing, shall be included in, the said
report. That report along with the instruction. and opinion of Chief Executive Officer shall have
to be présented then to the meeting of the Board of Directors or Higher Management
Committee: and a copy of the same report shall be submitted to BFIU within, 2(two) months
from the completion of.half-year.

3. As per the directives from Central Compliance Committee, ‘Anti Money. Laundering and.
Terrorist Financing Department’ shall issue instructions to be followed. ‘by the branches; that.
will include the procedure for completing KYC, transaction monitoring arrangement, internal.
control arrangement and other policy and procedures. to be followed to prevent money
laundering:and terrorist financing.

4. Central Compliance Committee: shall establish internal monitoring and control by nominating
Compliance Officer at branch level. In this case, an experienced official on ML/TF issues shall
be nominated as Branch Anti Money Laundering Compliance Officer (BAMLCO) in every
branch. Note that, Branch Manager, second in command of the branch or experienced High
Official of General Banking /Foreign Exchange/Credit Division etc. shall be nominated as
BAMLCO. The BAMLCO shall have sound knowledge on anti. money. laundering and terrorist
financing related existing acts, rules, instructions issued by BFIU and bank's own policy. Terms
of reference and the roles and ‘responsibilities of the BAMLCO shall have: to be specified in.
his/her nomination letter.

5. The BAMLCO shall arrange quarterly meeting on-prevention of:money. laundering.and terrorist
financing with the relevant officials of the branch and appropriate actions need to be taken. in
that meeting upon reviewing branch compliance status in the context of existing acts, rules and.
instructions issued by BFIU on anti-money laundering and terrorist financing along with. the
following items:

০ Customer Identification;

০ ‘Transaction Monitoring;

০ Detection.and reporting:of Suspicious Transaction or Activity Report;
রেলে ৷ ৷ ৷৷ [Page

০ Implementing United Nations Security Council. Resolutions along with the local sanction.
list;
০ Self-assessment related activities;
০ ‘Record Keeping;
o ‘Training etc.
The BAMLCO shall send the minutes of quarterly meeting to the ‘Anti, Money Laundering and.
Terrorist Financing Department’ of the bank.
AML/CFT Compliance Structure in a nutshell:
AML/CFT Compliance Structure
Para 1.3, BFIU Circular No-26 — / Having knowledge about AML/CFT
0 , [আলা তে policies/laws, international standards,
, রঙ পুত | কন . ট্া0001003/56100,
= : Responsibilities and duties shall /
Minimum seven membered Committee | MB ACEQ) : be definite :
along with the CAMLCO and DCAMILCO, ‘i = .
where Head of different divisions will So রণ
he members wil! work separately, } : 7 Notbe wo tires
respons tles of the members CANILUGO) less than the rank
. should be defined “/ | ; a, MD/CEO
| :
. | AMI) CElgmmE Equivalent to the
Formed with adequate Division) লেখাতে rank of SVP/DGM
members; _ - রর] ্
Rosponsibilities should be পর
। defined ৩ পাট *
- a I | BAMILEO 1 Manager/second |
iL. ! ANID) manager (oxperionced
In GB/FX/credit etc}
তাত তা ছা জং জা es Aavattisrpn-.6 রম, *
50|Page

Module €: Financial Crime Risk. Assessment

0.1 Money Laundering and Terrorist. Financing Risk Assessment. Guidelines for the

Banking Sector

Recommendation. 1 of Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the international. standard setter on

anti-money laundering (AML) and. combating ‘terrorist ‘financing (CTF) states. that.countries

should require financial institutions and designated non-financial businesses and professions

(DNFBPs) to identify, assess and. take. effective action to mitigate. their money laundering and

terrorist financing risks. Rule 10 of MLPR .2019. states that every Reporting Organization-

Financial Institution, considering the nature of business, products or sérvicés, country,

geographical location etc., shall have to, conduct periodic risk assessment which ‘will be used to

manage and control the ML/TF risk of the organization.

Money Laundering Prevention Act, 2012 empowers BFIU sufficiently to establish a, sound and

efficient AML&CFT regime. Every reporting agency has to comply with the instructionsissued

by BFIU under the power of Money Laundering Prevention Act. (MLPA), 2012 and Anti-

Terrorism. Act (ATA), 2009 (including all amendments). With the empowerment of those Acts and

Rules, BFIU has issued ML/TF Risk Assessment Guidelines for the Banks.

C.1.2 Requirement for Banks for Risk Assessment

(a) Assessing risk

Banks. should be. required to take: appropriate steps to identify and assess their ‘money

laundering and. terrorist financing risks for customers, countries or geographic areas, products,

services and transactions or ‘delivery channels. They should document those assessments in

order to ৮০ able. to demonstrate their basis, keep these assessments up to date, and have

appropriate mechanisms to. provide risk assessment information to competent authorities.

(b) Risk management and mitigation.

Banks. should be required to have policies, controls and‘procedures that enable them to manage

and. mitigate effectively the risks that have been ‘identified. They should be requiredto monitor

the implementation, of those. controls and 00 enhance them, if necessary. The policies, controls

and procedures must be approved by senior management, and the measurestaken to manage and

mitigate ‘the risks (whether higher or lower) should be consistent with national. requirements

and with guidance from.competent.authorities.

C.1.2.1 What is risk

Risk: can be defined as the combination of the probability of an event and. its consequences. In_
52|Page

simple'term, risks can be seen as a.combination of the chance that:something may happen andthe
degree of damage or loss that may result if it does occur.

C.1.2.2. What is ‘risk management

Risk management is a systematic process of recognizing risk and developing methods to both
minimize and manage the risk. This. requires the development of a. method ‘to identify,.
prioritize, treat: (deal. with), control and. monitor ‘risk exposures. In risk management, a. process
is followed where the risks are assessed against the likelihood (chance) of them, occurring and
the severity or amount of loss or damage (impact) which may result if they dohappen.

C.1.2.3 which risks do banks need ‘to manage

For'the ML&TF aspects, BFIU expects a risk management ‘practice to address two main risks:
business risk and regulatory risk.

C.1.3 Risk Management Framework

The banks will have flexibility to construct and tailor their risk management framework for
the purpose of developing risk-based. systems and controls and mitigation strategies in a
manner that is most appropriate to their business structure: (including financial resources and.
staff), their products and/or the services they provide. Such, risk-based systems and controls.
should be proportionate to the ML&TF risk(s) a.bank:reasonably faces.

For effective risk:management, the banks should.atall levels follow the principles below:

© ‘Risk management contributes to the demonstrable achievement of objectives and.
improvement of performance, governance and reputation,

এ Risk management is :not a stand-alone activity that is separate from. the main
activities. and processes of the ‘bank. Risk management ‘is part. of the
responsibilities of management, and an integral part of all organizational
processes, including strategic planning.

a ‘Risk management helps decision makers making informed choices, prioritize
actionsand distinguish among alternative courses of action..

Risk management explicitly takes account of uncertainty, the nature of that uncertainty,
and how jit can be addressed.

= A systematic, timely and structured approach to risk management contributes to.
efficiency and to consistent, comparable and.reliable results.

s Risk management.is based_on the best.available information.

a Risk management is aligned with the bank's external and internal context and risk.
‘profile.

53(Page

‘0 Risk management‘is transparent:and inclusive.
© ‘Risk mafagement. is dynamic, iterative and responsive to change.
In assessing and mitigating ML&TF risk, the banks should considera wide range of
financial products and services which are associated. with different ML/TF risks.
These include, but are‘not limited to Retail banking, Corporate. and investment. banking,
investment services, correspondent services etc.
The risk management framework ata glance:
(a) Risk identification:
identify the main ML&TF risks:
* customers
* products & services:
* business. practices/delivery. methods or channels.
* country/jurisdiction
Identify the main regulatory risks:
e failure to report STRS/SARs
০ inappropriate. customer verification
e inappropriate record keeping
. ° lack of AML/CFT program WA
(0) Risk assessment /evaluation
Wfeasure the size & importance of risk: TM~\
* likelihood —chance.of the risk happening.
* impact—the-amount of loss or damage
ifthe risk happened.
_ likelihood Ximpact= level of risk (risk score)
54[Page.

(c) Risk treatment.
Wlanage the business risks: -
* minimize and'manage the risks
* apply strategies, policies and procedures
Manage the regulatory risks:
* putin place systems and controls
© carry out the risk plan and. AML&CFT program
(d) Risk monitoring and review
Monitor and review the risk plan:
* develop and carry ot monitoring process
* keep necessary: records
* review risk plan and AML&CFT program
* do internal audit‘or.assessment
। * do AML&CFT compliance ‘report
C.1.4 The risk management process
(a) Risk identification
Identify the. main ML&TF risks:
* customers
* products & services
* business practices/delivery methods. or channels
* country/jurisdiction
Identify the. main regulatory risks:
০. failure to,report STRs/SARs
০ inappropriate customer verification
e inappropriate record keeping
০ lack of AML/CFT program
The first step: is. to identify what ML&TF risks exist in a bank when providing.
designated services. Some examples of ML&TF risk: associated with different banking
activities:
0 Retail banking~ provision. of services. to cash-intensive businesses; volume of
transactions,high-value transactions, diversity of, services.
0 Wealth management: culture of confidentiality, difficulty to identify beneficial
55(Page

owners, concealment (use of offshore trusts), banking secrecy, complexity of financial
services and products, PEPs, high value transactions, multiple jurisdictions.,
a Investment banking: layering and integration, transfer of assets between parties in
exchangefor cash or other assets, global nature of markets.
o Correspondent banking: high value transactions, limited information about the
remitter andsource of funds especially when executing transactions with a. bank located
in a jurisdiction that does not comply’ or complies insufficiently with FATF
Recommendations, the possibility that PEPs are involved regarding the ownership of a
bank.
There are two risk types i.e. Business risk, and Regulatory risk.
(i) Business risk.
A bank must consider the risk posed by any element or any combination of the elements
listed below::
01. Customers: followings are some indicators. (but not limited to): to identify
ML&TF risk arises from customers of a’bank.
anew customer
‘2a new customer who wants to-carry out a.large transaction
‘a customer or a group-of customers making lots of transactions to the: sameindividual
or group
‘#a.customer who has-a business which-involves large.amounts of cash
‘.a-customer whose identification is difficult to check
‘fa, customer who brings in large amounts of used, notes and/or small
denominations.
‘acustomers conducting ‘their business relationship or transactions. in unusual
circumstances, such as:
‘e significant and unexplained geographic distance between the institution andthe location
of the customer
‘« frequent: and. unexplained movement of accounts to different institutions
-# frequent and. unexplained movement of funds between institutions in variousgeographic
locations
‘#anon- resident customer
‘#a corporate Customer whose ownership stricture is unusuial.and excessively:complex.
56|Page

“scustomers that are politically exposed ‘persons (PEPs) or influential persons (IPs) or.
head.of international organizations and.their family members and close associates
“scustomers submit.account. documentation showing an unclear ownership structure.
‘acustomer opens. account in the name of his/her ‘family member who intends: tocredit
large amount of deposits not consistent. with the known sources of legitimate family
income.
02..Products and services:
‘9 ‘private banking i.e., prioritized or privileged banking
= credit card
® anonymous transaction.
© non face to face business relationship or transaction
০ payment-received from unknown or unrelated third parties
8 any new product & service developed.
2 service to walk-in customers
a mobile banking:
03. Business practice/delivery methods or channels:
a direct:to the customer
« online/internet
দ phone
দ fax
a email
a third-party agent. or broker.
04. Country/jurisdiction:
s any country which is unidentified by credible sources. as having significantlevel of
corruption and criminal. activity
a any country subject to economic or trade sanctions
a any country known to be a ‘tax haven and unidentified. by credible sources as:
providing funding or support for terrorist activities or that have designated.
terrorist.organizations operating within their country
দ any country unidentified by FATF or FSRBs as not having adequate AML&CFT
57|Page

system
a any country identified. as: destination of illicit financial flow
(ii) Regulatory risk
This risk is associated with not meeting the requirements of the Money laundering
Prevention. Act, 2012, Anti-Terrorism. Act, 2009 (including: all amendments) and
instructions issued by BFIU. Examples of some of*these.risks are:
« customer/beneficial owner identification and verification not done properly
« failure to keep record properly
« failure to scrutinize staffs properly
« failure to train staff adequately
* not having an AML&CFT program
« failure'to report suspicious transactions or activities
® not submitting required report to BFIU regularly’
« not having an AML&CFT Compliance Officer
« failure of doing Enhanced Due: Diligence (EDD) for high risk customers (i.e.,.PEPs,
* not complying with any order for freezing or suspension of transaction issued. by
BFIU or BB
« not submitting accurate information or statement requested by BFIU or BB.
(b) Risk assessment:
Calculation of Risk Score
easure the size & importance of risk: .
* likelihood —chance:of the risk:‘happening
* impact —the amount.of loss or damage
ifthe risk happened
° ikelihood X.impact = Jevel of risk (risk score) ‘
Having identified the:risks involved, they need to be assessed. or measured. in terms of
the chance (likelihood) they will occur and. the severity or amount of loss or damage
(impact) which. may result if they do occur. The risk, associated with an event is a
combination of thechance (likelihood) that the event will occur and the seriousness of
the damage (impact) it may do.
58|Page

Therefore, each risk element.can be rated. by:
o the chance of the risk happening — ‘likelihood’
০ the amount.of loss.or'damage if the-risk happened — ‘impact? (consequence).
| LILELIHOOD X IMPACT=Risk Level/Score
Likelihood scale
A likelihood scale refers to the potential of an ML&TF risk occurring in the business for
the particular risk being assessed.. Three levels. of risk are, shown. in Table, 2; but the
entity can have as many as they believe are necessary.
Table: Likelihood scale
Very likely Almost certain: it will probably occur several times a year
Likely. | High probability it will happen:once’a'year |
Unlikely Unlikely, but not impossible
- Impact scale
An impact scale refers to the seriousness of the damage (or otherwise) which could
occur should the event.(risk) happen.
In assessing the possible impact or conséquences, the asséssment can be made from.
several viewpoints. It does not cover everything and :it is ‘not prescriptive. Impact. of an
ML&TF risk could, depending on individual bank and its business: circumstances, be
rated-or looked at from the point of'view of:

a ‘how it may affect the business (if through not dealing with,risks properly the
bank suffers a financial loss from either a crime or through fines from BFIU or
regulator)

« ‘the risk that a particular transaction may result in the loss of life or property
‘through, aterrorist act

«the risk: that .a particular transaction may result:in funds being used for any of the
following: corruption and. bribery, counterfeiting currency, counterfeiting deeds
and documents, smuggling of goods/workers/immigrants, banking offences,

59|Page

narcotics. offences; psychotropic substance offences, illegal arms trading,
kidnapping, terrorism, theft, embezzlement, or fraud, forgery, extortion,
smuggling of domestic :and.foreign currency, black marketing
© the risk that a particular transaction. may cause suffering due to the ‘financing of illegal
drugs:
® reputational risk — how it may affect the bank if it is found to have (unknowingly)
aided an illegal act, which may mean government sanctions. and/or being
shunned by the: community of customers
দ how it may. affect the wider community of customers if it is found. to. have
aided an illegal act; the community may get a bad. reputation as well as the
business.
Three levels of impact: are shown in Table 3, but the bank can have as-many as they
believeare necessary.
Table : Impact scale
Consequence: [Impact —of an ML/TF risk
Major Huge consequences — major damage or effect. Serious terrorist
act orlarge-scale money laundering.
Moderate Moderate leyel of money laundering or terrorism financing
impact.
তে or negligible consequences or effects.
» Risk matrix and risk score
Use the risk matrix to combine. LIKELIHOOD and IMPACT to obtain. a:risk score. The
riskscore may be used to aid. decision making’ and help in deciding what action to take in
view ofthe oyerall. risk. How the risk: score is derived can be seen. from the risk matrix,
(Figure 2) and risk score table (Table 4) shown below. Four levels of risk score are
shown in Figure 2 and Table 4, but the bank can have: as many as they believe are
necessary.

Threat level-for. ML/TF-risk
_ | | Very-Likely ৷ ‘Medium High Extreme
5 রা 2 3 4
© || | Likely’ Low ‘Medium. High
= 1 2 3
a | | Unlikely. Low Low iMediuin- |
“| Whatisthe -Minor: ‘Moderate -Major,
chance ‘it:
দিলি রং ee IMPACT.
|dExireme | Risk-almost'snre‘to'appencandior to have-very/sexions consequences: |
আআ a Do notallow, transaction‘untibrisk:red UceC : দাউ
Svein? |) |! POSSHIE this COU hApP Pen ANd/OLTAV EMO dErATECONSEGITENCES: . |
| Responses সস |
|__.___ _ | Maygoraliead butpreferablyreducevisk; 2. LL!
রা ‘Unilikely;to Nappeiiand os havembiorovalegligible:consequences: |
০ Risk Assessment and Management Exercise:.
From. the above discussion, the banks will have an idea to calculate risk, score by:
blending likelihood and impact, the risk. matrix and risk.score and can assess the. risks
of individual customer, product/service, delivery channel and risks ‘related to
geographic region by using the simplified risk management worksheet (Table-01). It can
also fix up its necessary actions against the particular’s outcomes of risks. All the
exercises done bythe banks would.be calledtogether "Risk Registrar".
61|Page

(0) Risk Treatment
Manage the Business Risks:
5s minimize and manage the risks
= apply strategies, policies and procedures
Managé:the regulatory risks:
2 Put in place systems and controls
= Carry out the risk plan and. AML/CFT program
This stage is about identifying and testing methods to manage 006 71915 the entity may have
identified and, assessed in the previous process. In doing this they will need 00 consider putting
into place strategies, policies and procedures to help reduce (or treat) the risk.
Examples ০09 risk,reduction, or treatment step are:
© setting transaction limits for high-risk products
o having a management approval process for higher-risk products
০ process to’place customers in different risk categories and apply different identification
and verification methods
© not-accepting customers who wish to transact with a high-risk country.
(d) Monitor and Review
/ Monitor & review the risk plan: >
* develop and carry out monitoring process
* kéep necessary récords
* review risk plan and AML&CFT program
* do internal audit:or assessment
A+ do AML&CFT compliance report রড
Keeping records. and regular evaluation of the risk plan and AML&CFT program is essential.
The risk management plan. and AML&CFT program cannot remain static as risks change over
time; for example, changes to customer base, products and ‘services, business practices.and the
law.
Once documented, the: entity should develop a method to check: regularly on. whether
AML&CET program is working correctly and well. If not, the entity‘ needs to work out what
needs ‘to be improved and. put changes’ in place. This will help keep the program effective and
also meet the requirements of the AML&CFT Acts and ‘respective Rules.
C.1.4,1 Additional tools to help risk assessment
62|Page

The following tools or ideas can be useful in. helping to manage risk. It can be: included
in theprevious Tisk assessment process so that the decisions are to be better informed.
(a) Applying risk appetite. to risk assessment
Risk appetite is the amount of risk a bank is prepared. to accept in pursuit of its business goals.
Risk,appetite can-be an extra guide to the risk.management strategy and can also helpdeal with
risks. It is usually expressed as an acceptable/unacceptable level of risk. Some questions: to ask.
are:
০ What risks will the bank accept?
০ What risks will the bank not accept?
০ What-risks will the bank treat.on.a.case by case basis?
০ What risks will the bank.send to a.higher level for a decision?
In a risk-based approach to AML&CFT the assessment of risk appetite is a judgment that must
be made by the bank. It:will be based on its business goals and strategies, and.an. assessment of
the ML&TF risks. it faces in providing the designated services to its chosen markets.
oO: | [Likely |: AeceptablesRiske || Acceptable Riske—|| Unacceptable Risk.
“Heda a SOW, ve ThOWs. oo tm Medium -
ক s , ree wee তা lane SES ২৬ ঠা |
৷ ছে থর
"wilkhappen?, . তেনে
0.1.4.2. Risk tolerance
In addition to defining bank's risk appetite; the entity can also define a level. of variation to
how it manages that risk.. This is called risk tolerance, and it provides.some flexibility whilst:
still keeping to the:risk framework that has been developed.
— 63 (Page |

C.1.5 Risk Management: Strategies and Techniques
C.1.5.1 Risk Management Strategies
The banks may adopt the following components (where appropriate to the nature, size and
complexity 01109 business), among others, as part of its risk-management strategy:
a) reviews. at senior management level of the bank's progress towards implementing
state(ML&TF risk management objectives
b) clearly defined management responsibilities and accountabilities regarding ML&TF
riskmanagement
০) adequate staff resources to undertake functions associated with ML&TF risk
management
d) specified staff reporting lines from ML&TF risk management system. level to board.
or senior management level, with difect access to the boaid member(s) or senior
manager(s) responsible. for overseeing the system
e)' procedural, controls relevant to ‘particular designated services
f) documentation ofall ML&TF risk management policies
g) a system, whether technology based or manual, :for monitoring the ‘bank's.
compliance
with relevant controls
h) policies to:resolve identified non-compliance
i) appropriate training program(s). for staff to develop expertise in the
identification of ML& TF risk(s) across the bank's designated services
j).an effective information management. system which should:
i)’produce detailed ‘and accurate: financial, operational and. compliance data
relevant toML& TF risk management
di) incorporate. market information, relevant to the global AML&CFT
environment which may assist the banks to make decisions regarding its risk
management strategy
iii) enable relevant, accurate and timely information to be available to a relevant:
officer (for example, the AML&CFT Compliance Officer) within the banks
iv) allow the banks to identify, quantify, assess: and monitor business activities
relevant to ML&TF risk(s)
‘vy allow the banks to monitor the effectiveness of and complianee. with its
internalAML&CFT systems and-procedures

vi) allow the banks. to regularly assess the timeliness and relevance of
informationgenerated, together with its adequacy, quality and accuracy.
It should be noted. that a bank can.adopt other strategies in addition to.taking. into account ofany
of the: above factors (where relevant), if it considers. this approach is appropriate in accordance
with its risk management framework.
C.1.5.2 Ongoing Risk Monitoring
A bank's ongoing monitoring of its risk management:procedures ‘and controls may also alert.
a the. bank to any potential failures including (but not limited to):
দর failure to include all mandatory legislative components
0 failure to gain board and/or executive approval, of the AML&CFT program
a insufficient or inappropriate employee due diligence
দর frequency and. level of risk awareness training not. aligned with potential
exposure toOML&TF risk(s)
0 changes. in business functions which are not reflected. in the AML&CFT
program (forexample, the introduction of a new product or distribution channel)
a failure to undertake independent review (at an appropriate level and
frequency) of thecontent and application.of the AML&CFT program
a legislation incorrectly interpreted. and applied in relation to a. customer
identificationprocedure
0 customer identification and monitoring systems, policies and procedures that fail to:
0 prompt, if appropriate, for further identification and/or verification when the
ML&TF risk posed by a customer-increase
ii) detect where a customer has not been. sufficiently identified, and
prevent thecustomer from:receiving the designated service.
iii) take appropriate ‘action where a customer provides insufficient or
suspiciousinformation in-relation to an identification check
iv) také appropriate action where the identification document provided is
neither anoriginal nor a certified copy
v) recognize foreign identification documentation issued by a high-risk jurisdiction
vi) record comprehensive details of identification documents, for example, the:
date ofissue
vii) consult appropriate resources in. order to identify high-risk customers
viii) identify when an. expired or old, identification document (for example, ‘a
driver's
65 [Page

license) has been used
ix) collect any other name(s) by*which, the customer is' known
i) lack. of access to information sources to assist in identifying jhigher ‘risk
customers (and the jurisdictions in which they may reside), such.as PEPs,
terrorists and narcotics traffickers
j) lack of ability to consistently and correctly train staff and/or third ‘parties,
particularly inareas with high turnover in:
i). customer identification policies, procedures and systems
ii) identifying ‘potential ML&TF risks
k) acceptance of documentation that may not be readily verifiable.
C.1.5.3 Higher risk scenario.
When assessing the money laundering and terrorist financing risks relating to types of
customers, countries or geographic areas, and particular products, services, transactions or
delivery channels, examples of potentially higher-risk situations include the following:
i.Customer risk factors
০ The: business relationship is conducted in unusual circumstances. (e.g. significant
unexplained. geographic distance’between the financial institution and the customer)
০ Non-resident customers.
e Legal persons or arrangements that are personal asset-holding vehicles
০ Companies that have:ynominee shareholders or shares in bearer form
০ Business.that are cash-intensive:
e The ownership structure of the company appears unusual or excessively complexgiven.
the nature of the company's business
ii. Country or-geographic:risk factors
e Countries identified by credible sources, such as mutual evaluation or detailed
assessment reports or published follow-up reports, as not having adequate:
AML&CFT systems
e Countries subject to sanctions, embargos or similar. measures
e Countries identified by credible sources as ‘having significant levels of corruption or
other criminal activity
e Countries or geographic areas identified. by credible sources as providing funding or
support for terrorist activities, or that have designated terrorist organizations operating
66|Page )

within their country
111. Product, service, transaction or delivery channel risk factors.
e Private banking
e Anonymous ‘transactions (which may include cash)
e Non-face-to-face business relationships or, transactions
e Payment received :from unknown or un-associated third parties.
C.1.5.4 Lower risks Scenario
There are circumstances where the risk of money laundering or terrorist financing may be
lower. When assessing the money laundering and terrorist. financing risks relating to types of
customers, countries or geographic: areas, and particular products, services, transactions or
delivery channels, examples of potentially lower‘risk situations ‘include the following:
i. Customer risk factors
e Banks — where they ate subject to requirements to combat money: laundering and
terrorist financing consistent with the FATF Recommendations, have effectively
implemented those requirements, and are effectively supervised or ‘monitored in,
accordance with the Recommendations to ensure :compliance with those requirements
Public companies listed on a stock exchange and subject to disclosure requirements (either by
stock exchange rules or through law or enforceable means), which impose requirements to
ensure adequate transparency of beneficialownership
e Public administrations or enterprises.
ii. Product, service, transaction or delivery channel risk factors:

e Financial products or services that provide appropriately defined. and limited
servicés to certain types. of customers, so as to increase access. for: financial
inclusion purposes:

111. Country risk factors
০ Countries identified by credible sources, suchas mutual evaluation or detailed,
assessment:reports, as having effective AML&CFT systems
© Countries identified by credible sources .as having a low level of corruption or
other criminal activity. In making a risk assessment, countries or financial,
institutions could, when appropriate, also take into account possible variations
in.money laundering and terrorist financing risk between. different regions or
areas within:a country.
Note that having a. lower money laundering and terrorist financing risk for identification and
67 [Page

verification purposes. does not necessarily mean that. the same customer poses lower risk forall
types of CDD measures, in particular for ongoing monitoring of transactions.
68|Page .

C.1.5.5 Risk variables
When assessing the money laundering and. terrorist financing risks relating to types of
customers, countries or geographic areas, and particular products, services, transactions. or
delivery channels ‘risk, a bank should take: into account risk variables relating to those. risk
categories. These variables, either singly or in combination, may increase. or decrease the
potential risk posed, thus impacting the. appropriate level of CDD measures. Examples of such
variables include:
e The purpose. ofan account or relationship
° The level of assets to be deposited by a customer or the size of transactions
undertaken
e The regularity or duration of the business relationship.
C.1.5.6 Counter Measures for Risk.
C.1.5.6.1 Enhanced due diligence measures
Banks should. examine, as far as reasonably possible, the background and purpose of all
complex, unusual large transactions, and. all unusual patterns of transactions, which have no
apparent economic or lawful purpose. Where the risks of money laundering or terrorist
financing are higher, bariks should be. required. to conduct, enhanced due diligence (EDD)
measures for higher-risk business relationships include:
০ Obtaining and verifying additional information on the customer (e.g. occupation,
volume of assets, information available through public databases, internet, etc.),
andupdating,more regularly the identification data.of customer and beneficial
owner
০ Obtaining and verifying additional information on the intended nature of the
businessrelationship
০ Obtaining and verifying:information on the source of funds or source. of wealth of
thecustomer
০ Obtaining and verifying information on the reasons for intended. or performed
transactions
০ ‘Obtaining and verifying the-approval of senior management to commience or
continuethe business relationship
০ Conducting enhanced monitoring of the business relationship, by 1701৩831108 the
number and timing of.controls applied, and selecting patterns.of transactions that
need further examination
69| Page |

০: Requiring the first payment to be carried out through an account in the customer's
name with.a bank subject'to similar‘CDD standards.
C.1.5.6.2 Simplified CDD measures
Where the risks of money laundering or terrorist financing are lower, the banks are allowed to
conduct simplified. CDD measures, which should take into account;the nature of the lower risk.
The simplified measures should, ‘be commensurate with the lower risk factors (e.g. the
simplified measures could relate only to. customer acceptance measures or to aspects of
ongoing monitoring). Examples of possible measures are:
© Werifying the identity of the customer and. the beneficial, owner after the establishmentof.
the business relationship (e.g. if account transactions rise above a defined monetary
threshold)
oe Reducing the frequency of customer identification updates
০ Reducing the degree of on-going monitoring.and.scrutinizing transactions, based ০17. 3
reasonable monetary threshold
° Not collecting specific information or carrying out specific measures to understand the:
purpose and.intended nature of the business relationship, but inferring the purposeand
nature from, the type of transactions or business relationship established. Simplified CDD
measures are not acceptable, whenever there 19 a suspicion of moneylaundering or ‘terrorist:
financing, or where specific higher-risk scenarios apply.
3.1.5.7 Ongoing due diligence
Banks should be required to ensure that documents, data. or information collected under
the CDD process 18 kept up-to-date and relevant by undertaking reviews of existing,
records, particularly for higher-risk.
C.2 Identifying and Assessing ‘Trade Based. Money Laundering (TBML)
The international trade system. is clearly subject to a wide range of risks and vulnerabilities that can.
be exploited by criminal organizations and terrorist. financiers. In ‘part, these arise from the
enormous ‘volume of trade flows, which obscures individual. transactions; the complexities.
associated with the use of multiple foreign exchange ‘transactions and diverse trade. financing
arrangements; the commingling of legitimate and illicit funds; and the limited resources that most
customs agencies have available to detect suspicious trade transactions,
70 (‘Page

Trade Based Money Laundering (TBML) was recognized, by the Financial Action Task Force
(FATF) in its landmark 2006 study as one of the three main methods by which criminal
organizations and terrorist financiers move money for the purpose of disguising its origins and
integrating it back into the formal economy. This method of money laundering (ML) is based upon.
abuse of ‘trade transactions, and their financing: The 2006 FATF Study highlighted the increasing
attractiveness of TBML as a method for laundering funds, as controls on laundering of funds.
through misuse of the financial system (both formal and alternate) and:through physical movement.
of.cash (cash smuggling) become tighter.

FATF, in its best practice paper in 2008, defined TBML as “the process of disguising the proceeds
of crime and moving value through the use of trade transactions in an attempt to legitimize: their
illegal origins or finance their activities”. Like many. countries, Bangladesh is also affected by trade-
based. money laundering and ensuing illicit outflow.. Concerns in this area are almost unanimously
agreed by all relevant agencies and authorities.

Recognizing Trade Based Money: Laundering (TBML) as’ the riskiest area. in money laundering,
BFIU issued guidelines for Prevention of Trade Based Money Laundering for banks through BFIU
Circular no. 24 ঢা) 10 December 2019. The guideline covers both TBML risk assessment ‘and risk
mitigation.

C.3 Guidelines for Prevention of TBML in Bangladesh

C.3.1 The process flow in a documentary credit

Among the trade payment methods mostly followed. in Bangladesh are documentary credit. and
documentary collection. In. a documentary credit process, the issuing banks have primary
obligations in the transaction. The process flow is as under the Buyer (importer) and the seller
(exporter) furnish sale/purchase contract

71. [Page |

নে Shipping Lines); ft} )
চাপ...
ক ., * = : চে রিল» nr
pees || 1001001510715 | লা ই মম (fe OTUGUStOMS Le 7
: [iL il! ‘Authority dian Nie oP Bete ege nana Seas AULT Oty 0 aaa
না i —— = a ssArmange:shipment:
d3:Release- goods: |
BClearing Agcht কে ই ; ভিটা চে রে
1১ Yr: 4 Receive: gouds ৯১২১১০99978
} “ri : Ne ‘ty
TP 0 ee ef Sioncontract.— | Spat (S =a sess
Di eerie Pus ঢা ই rasa {oe
& wie SRS tand send LIGs Bis! Bc
@ 25 ees S|] [or |
ECD | | Tl চে. .
lssuing bank Advising banké Nominatedbank,
‘ নিতে লে! ae Peay ar ee
7 দা জি 7
a) Among the trade payment. methods mostly followed in Bangladesh are documentary credit
and documentary collection. In a documentary credit process, the issuing banks have
primary obligations in the transaction. The process flow ‘is as under the Buyer (importer)
and thé seller (exporter) furnish. sale/purchase contract.
b) The applicant (Buyer) requests the issuing bank to open documentary credit on'account of
the buyer.
০) The issuing Bank issues the credit in favor of the: ‘beneficiary ‘and transmits through the
advising bank (usually).
d) The advising bank advises the credit to the beneficiary (Seller).
72 (Page

০) The beneficiary ships the goods, ‘prepares, collects & collates the requireddocuments under
the credit and presents to the nominated bank (usually).
fy The nominated. bank. forwards documents to the issuing bank/confirming bank. Nominated
bank can honour/negotiate. documents 1.e. make payments and claim re-imbursement: if
documents are in order as ‘per LC terms.
g) Issuing bank on. receipt of complying presentation and. /or obtaining documents effects
payment to the- beneficiary and/or nominated bank, as the case may be.
h) The applicant releases documents from the issuing bank.
1) The applicant.clears the goods from the customs through. his appointed clearingagent.
C.3.1.1 Instructing Parties
In. a trade finance transaction, banks .are not always :involved into transactions at the requestor
instruction from, its own customer: In addition to bank’s own customer, the instructing party may
be, for example, but’not limited to:
Instructing party | Commercial Bank’s role as instructed party
oo ; | Advising Bank, Nominated Bank; Confirming —
Credit Bank, Transferring Bank
Advising Bank 214 Advising Bank
Remitting Bank Collecting and/or presenting bank [if collecting
Documentary bank and presenting bank are’the same]
Collection Collecting Bank Presenting: Bank, [if collecting bank and
presenting bank are not the same]
Cash In Ordering Customer/ _
ass TOGEINS পণ Inward remittance receiving bank.
Advance Itistitution
Guarantee
backed by
Counter . ,
counter Guarantor, Advisor, Confirmer, Nominated
guarantor/Issuer/
guarantee | person etc.
Guarantor
including
standby LC
73 [Page

C.3.1.2: Counter Parties must be at. least one counter party in.a trade finance transaction. Counter
party may be for instances but not-limited‘to as under:
Documentary Credit | Issuing Bank, Nominated Bank, Confirming Bank, Advising
pe in sagaa etc
Documentary Principal, remitting bank, collecting bank, Presenting. bank,
Guarantee/Standby | Issuer, Counter guarantor, confirmer, guarantor etc.
Le Counter parties in trade finance transaction can be broadl
categorizes in two forms:
v Banks of financial institutions
/ Any party other’than banks or financial ‘institutions
Depending on the risk and vulnerabilities of the instructing and counter parties mentioned above,
banks. shall frame their detailed due diligence measures in line with this guidelines, relevant BFIU
circulars, local regulations and international best practices.
C.3.1.3 Related Parties to Trade
In. order to execute a trade transaction, there are inherently more parties involved other than buyer
and seller. “Related parties to trade” include traders, brokers, shipper/consignor, notify: parties,
shipping lines, ‘freight forwarders. etc. Reasonable dtie diligence measures (i.e. sanction
screening/adverse media screening ete.); at least on TBML alerted. transactions in a risk-based
approach, should be conducted. on“related party to trade” as well.
C.3.1.4 Trade of Services
Lion share of trade is. backed by underlying goods, however, trade of service items. such as
software, data entry, repair/renovation/refilled/overhauling, transporting, carrying, delivering etc.
is also on the rise: Service-import and export therefore should be dealt with adequate: due diligence
as scope and vulnerability of service items to TBML is increasing day by day. All the documents
and invoices should be verified. and checked whether the competitive price of the service has been
quoted or not. In software and service trade, certificate issued by BASIS and. documents
evidencing customs assessment and payment of duties and ‘taxes will, not be enough. Genuineness
and reliability of the importer and supplier should. be ensured so that transactions arising out. of
74|Page

such arrangement 77817000038 ML, TF and PF threats. Banks should guide. trade processing staff
on how to ensure them.
C.3.2 Regulatory Framework in Combating TBML in Bangladesh
C.3.2.1 Money Laundering Prevention Act, 2012: As per section. 2 (v) (it) of Money Laundering
Prevention. Act, 2012. smuggling of money or property is money’ laundering while section 2
(a) of the Act defines “smuggling of money or property” as-
i) transfer or holding money or ‘property outside the country in breach 01 the.
existinglaws in the country; :or.
ii) ‘refrain from. repatriating money or property from abroad in. which Bangladesh
083 aninterest and was due to be repatriated; or
iii) not bringing into the country the. actual dues from a foreign, country, 01
paying toforeign.country in.excess of the actual dues;
It can be easily comprehended that in Bangladesh context, international trade is one of the avenues
abusing which smuggling of:money or property and illicit outflow can take place.
As per'the Act, however, any person who commits or abets or conspires to commit the offense of
money laundering is liable to be punished for minimum 4 years and maximum 12. years of
imprisonment, in addition. to that a fine equivalent to twice the value of the propertyinvolved in the
offence or BDT 1, million whichever is higher shall be ‘imposed. The punishment for an entity in
this regard. is 3৪ 0116 of not less than twice the value of the propertyor BDT 2 million whichever is
higher; in addition to that license is also liable to be cancelled.
The law of the land, therefore, prohibits smuggling of money or property in the strictest tertn and
provides stringent punishment for' the offence. Despite such stringent legal provisions Banks may
willingly or inadvertently become vulnerable to this offence.
Furthermore, Guidelines for Foreign Exchange Transactions (GFET) and Import Policy Order
have made specific mandatory requirement for ensuring pricing’ competitiveness ‘prior to any
international trade transactions:
C.3.2.2 Import Policy Order 2015-2018: Chapter 2 “General Provisions for Import”, Section
5(4) “Import:at competitive rate”:
a) Import shall be made at the most competitive rate and it is obligatory for the importers,
at any time, to submit documents to Import Control Authority regarding the price paid or to be
paid by them;,
b) in case of import under Untied Commodity Aid in. the private sector, goods: shall be
75 [Page

imported at the most competitive rate by obtaining’ quotations ‘from at: least three suppliers or
indentors representing at least two source-countries: Provided that this condition shall not apply for
opening LC up to Tk. one lac;. and
০) for import at the most competitive rate by the public sector importers, quotations have
to be invited before opening letter of credit, and goods shall be:imported at the most competitive
price.
C.3.2.3 Guidelines for foreign Exchange transactions (GFET), 2018: volume-1 Chapter 7, Para
20: “Verification of import price etc.”:
“Before opening of LC or issuing LCAF, the AD shall have to take usual, and reasonable
cautionary measures to ensure’ that both the exporter:and importer are: bona fide business person.of
the goods concerned, the exporting country is the usual exporter of the goods concerned and. the
price of the goods concerned. is competitive in terms of‘prevailing’price in the international ‘market
on the date of contract and/or similar imports.in contemporary period. ADs are advised. to verify
the above, if needed, with the-help of concerned. Bangladesh Mission abroad.”
C.3.2.4 Chapter 8, Para’7 “Certification of EXP forms by ADs”:
(b) In order to avoid any loss of foreign exchange to the country, ADs shall not certify any EXP
form, unless they have satisfied themselves with regard to. the followings: (iv) Bona fides of the
buyers/consignees abroad and their credentials ৩00. where necessary, ADs should make disereet
enquiries in this regard through their correspondents abroad etc., greater care should be taken
particularly in cases of shipments against contract alone and. shipments on CAD/DA basis. Where
ADs doubt the bonafides and. standing’ of the buyers/consignees abroad or whereowing to common
interest or otherwise they suspect collusion with the intent 07 delaying or avoiding repatriation of
export proceeds ADs should report such, cases promptly to Bangladesh Bank. Similarly, ADs
should report to Bangladesh Bank cases where it comes to their knowledge that the exporters are
directly or indirectly connected with or have any financial or other interest in. the buyer/consignee
abroad. Where felt necessary, discreet enquiry about the bonafides and credentials of the charter
party should also be made in case the shipment. is to be against a charter party Bill of Lading so as
to avoid loss of cargo/foreignexchange:
(c) ‘These are, only few examples of regulatory instructions: In fact, there are many other
regulatory instructions relevant to combating TBML.
C.3.3 Scope of TBML in Bangladesh
Generally, criminals use trade finarice to obscure the illegal movement of funds through
misrepresentation of price, quality and/or quantity of goods’ and services. And to. do this; in most

cases, there might. be collusion between the seller and the buyer: The collusion may. wellarise: as

both, parties could be:controlled by the same person/entity: The transfer of value in this way may

be executed in a number of ways such. as Over Invoicing, Under Invoicing, Multiple Invoicing,

Short shipment, Over Shipment, Phantom Shipment, and Complicated Payment Stricture,

discount, price changes, freight charges or without ‘making any paymentat all etc: Bangladesh is

not an exception in this regard. However, some. of the vulnerabilities are given. below.

C.3.3.1 Import Procedure and:‘Some.Avenues for TBML in Bangladesh

i. Import. procedure in Bangladesh generally begins by obtaining an. Importer Registration
Certificate (IRC) from the: Office of the Chief Controller of. Import and Export (CCI&E) under the
Importers, Exporters and Indentors (registration) Order, 1981. According to this Order, an importer
can get one IRC for commercial and one for industrial import. Importers may take the
opportunity to have more than one IRCto use one in TBML as throughout the import procedure
and reporting of the transaction’s importers are identified through IRCs not. through their names.
Moreover, family members of a ‘trader having same business address may obtain IRCs and abuse
them to commit TBML.

ii. Letter of Credit Authorization Form (LCAF) is:mandatory for importer as it is the declaration of
amount, value, HS code andthe description of the goods.as per Customs First Schedule: and terms
of import. After declaration of LCAF, importers are allowed to open/issue LC/Contract by the
ADs. On the basis of the LC/Contract declaring on. IMP. by the importers ADs can, sale/make
payment of LC/Contract documents. Though importers are’ strictly prohibited from, making
payment in excessof LCAF value, sometimes abusing FC/ERQ accounts or other means, they pay
more than the value of the LCAF or of Expired value. and thus facilitate TBML.

ili, Major portion of imported goods. are imported on CFR basis in ‘Bangladesh ‘where freight
charges are invoiced to the importer. In some cases, it has been found that freight charges reached
several times of the FOB value. In fact, freight and other charges can also bé a medium of TBML.

iv. Value of goods: to be imported can be medium of TIBML as value can be quoted less than, the
actual price (Under invoicing) of the goods witha, deliberate ‘intention ‘to evade import duties and
taxes. Generally, most of the amount of under invoiced importis paid. through hundi or hawala.
Evasion. of taxes and duties i.e. custom related offenses is the predicate offence of ML in
Bangladesh according to: MLPA, 2012. On the other hand, capital machinery and raw materials
(of which import. duties arelower) can be imported quoting more than the actual price (Over
invoicing) of goods.as a medium of TBML.

v. Banks are: responsible to make: payment against the import documents. if found. inorder and

no discrepancy arises. Yet, documents can be received. directly by the 11071001061 8৪100 the goods
can be released from the customs. In that case, banks may make payment. based on the customs
certified. bill of entry (BE) submitted by the importer. This practice takes place while releasing
goods with. copy documents. TBML can occur in these situations as there are opportunities. to
fabricate the import documents. and related BE by the malafide importer.

vi. Banks are permitted to make ‘advance payment against import without ‘prior approval of BB
based on a repayment guarantee: from a bank: abroad. This guarantee: is not needed. for remittance
up to USD 5,000 (and USD 25,000 :from ERQ accounts). Moreover, fabricated/fake/false bank
guarantee can create-a scope of TBML through:payment of-advance remittance against import.

vii. After making payment against'the goods to be imported, importers are liable either to import the
goods or to bring back the amount remitted in proper banking channel (Article 4(3), FERA, 1947).
BB.marks out the duration of the process 4 months after the date of making payment. Failure to
transport ‘the goods within the prescribed. duration makes. the related Bill of Entry (BE) overdue
and no importer can get any import facility (opening LC/making advance payment, or
enhancement of existing LC/Contract value) from any ‘bank in Bangladesh having overdue BE
against any ofits previous import without the prior approval of BB, Importers may’ ‘take the
opportunity to surrender the IRC (intended to avoid the import liability and also to be involved in
TBML) against which BE is being overdue and get another IRC fora fresh start.

viii. The incidence of loss. or damage of the goods-in-transit’ or ‘before release as well as
cancellation of shipment may be used ‘as a medium of TBML. Compensation against the damaged
goods of return of ‘the remittance against cancelled shipment can. be received from sources/third
parties directly not related to the exporter of the goods. Again, loss of goods before release ‘from
the customs can be concocted (intended to. evade tax and commit capital flight) to get the insurance
claim and get waiver from submission of the BE.

ix. The ADs are allowed. to open back-to-back (BTB) import LCs against export LCs operating
under the bonded warehouse system, subject to observance of domestic value addition
requirement. Misuse of the bonded. warehouse facility (intended to evade tax) by selling the
imported goods to the local market can also be an exampleof TMBL iin import. Again, 9173 LCs
opened against arranged/fake master LCs can. also be used in TBML where no export occurs
showing some: 'valid' reasons though raw materials, imported duly against the BTB LCs.

x. ADs are allowed ‘to open, :deferred (Under Chapter'7, Para 33(a) of GFET, 2018), or usance
basis L/C. As there are instances and. vulnerabilities of abuse of suppliers’ and. buyers’ credit,
utmost care should be given to those payments where payments are. settled through. buyers’ credit
or suppliers’ ¢redit.

x1. Exporters are. allowed to export on CMT (Cutting, Making and Trimming). basis as well as to
import'the raw materials on Free of Cost.(FOC) basis. Since this FOC import does not require any
bank endorsement and there is no matching of bill of entry with the value, customers can
manipulate the. FOC items.
xii. Import of:non-physical goods (software and others) can be.a medium of TBML as keeping track
of import process of such non-physical goods is difficult for anyreporting/regulatory agency.
xili. Import Policy Order allows actual users to import up to a certain limit (USD 7,000.00 per
year) for their personal consumption. As AD banks have no control to monitor this limit through
any system individuals ‘might import through different ADs: exceeding the limit and sell them
commercially to the.market; illegally.
xiv. Consumers can purchase: goods online by making payment. through international credit or
debit cards or ‘unused ‘portion of Travel Quota and later receive. goodsthrough courier: ‘Criminal
proceeds might be transferred through this online:payment.
0.3.3.2 Export Procedure and Some Avenues for TBML in Bangladesh
i. Export procedure in Bangladesh generally starts with obtaining Exporter registration
Certificate (ERC) from the CCI&E wnder the Importers, Exporters and Indentors
(registration) Order, 1981. According to the order, an, exporter can get. only one ERC for
export. Exporters may take the opportunity to have more than one ERC to ‘use one in
TBML, as throughout the export.procedure and reporting of the transactions, exporters are
identified through. ERCs not through their names.

i. Value of goods to be exported can be a medium of TBML.as ‘value can be quoted less than.
the actual price (under invoicing) of'the goods intended.to siphon money abroad.

iii.After shipment. of'the goods: for export, exporters are liable to repatriate exportproceeds in
full (Section 12 of EERA, 1947). BB marks out the duration of the repatriation. of export
proceeds within 4 months after the date of shipment. Failure to receive the full export
proceeds’ within the prescribed duration makes the related. Export Bill overdue. Exporter
can be out of track having huge amount of overdue export bills intended to commit money
laundering through export.

jv.Commission, brokerage fee or other trade charges to be paid. to foreign importers/agents.
(of which up'to 5% ADs can allow) may also sometimes be abused for TBML.

v. Payments in. Foreign Exchange may ‘be made through. international. cards.
(débit/crédit/prepaid etc.) which are ¢ategorically mentioned in Chapter 19. of GFET,

79 [Page

2018. ADs should meticulously monitor the issuance and end-use of those cards.

vi.Partial drawing of export bill/Advance Receipt against export can. be abused. for TBML. It
is the responsibility of the ADs, to follow up each such case’ and to ensure that-the. balance:
amount:is also, realized within the prescribed period.

vii- Shutting out of a shipment by a particular vessel and re-shipment in another vessel
should be checked. This is because there are opportunities of TBML as transshipment
through one. or more jurisdictions for no apparent economic reason is suspicious.

vill. The incidence. of loss or damage of the exported goods in-transit or before release as.
well as cancellation of shipment (for which payment has not already been received) may
be: used. as a medium of TBML. Compensation against the damaged goods can. be
received from other sources/third parties directly not related to the importer of the goods.

ix.Export of non-physical. goods (software and others) can be a medium of TBML as keeping
track of the export process of the non-physical goods is difficult for any
reporting/regulatory agency.

x. Buying House Arrangement/Buyér Nominated Supplier Arrangement. can 8০ a medium of
TBML. Shipment of goods ¢an illicitly be delayed by‘the buying houses through ‘arranged
game' for getting discount, on the exported value. Again, buyer nominated supplier can
quote higher price for the raw materials and thus money laundering can take place.

xi. Transaction in large volume through other than banking channel such as exchange house
etc. is vulnerable to TBML.

xii, In the name of export proceeds wage earners’ remittance: may be brought ‘into
Bangladesh to claim cash incentives.

xili. Inward remittance may be brought from the countries where Bangladeshis have
direct/indirect business and cash incentive may’ be claimed.

xiv. .ADs are allowed to discount. the usance bill (para. 25, chapter 8). ADs should. take
utmost care: while discounting or purchasing foreign documentary export bills.

C.3.3.3. Remittance of Royalty, Technical Assistance Fees ete.
Under Section 18 of Bangladesh Investment Development. Authority Act, 2016, :approved industrial.
enterprises shall have to take approval from Bangladesh Investment: Development’ Authority
(BIDA) and other competent authorities for payment of royalty, technical know- ‘how, operational.
sétvice fees, management fees, technical assistance and franchise fees.

80 | Page

Vulnerabilities:
While making remittance of royalty and other technical fees, banks may expose them to
money laundering. by not conducting due diligerice under the following conditions:

a) Ambiguous agreement/contract between local company and technical. service

provider;
৮) Auditor’s certificates regarding net remittable. amount;
c) Suspicion remains. about the genuineness of the papers (copies of the
royalty/technical assistance agreements, documentary evidences); and

d) Lack of adequate due diligence on the underlying trade.
Adequate measures should.be taken to combat TBML in this. case and instructions contained in para
26, 27 & 28 of chapter 10 of GFET, 2018. should be followed meticulously when such remittances
are executed.
C.3.4 Some Avenues for TBML through OBUs, EPZs, EZs and PEZs in Bangladesh
Trade finance through. OBUs and different: mode of international trade practiced in the EPZs, EZs,
PEZs are sometiiiés: abused for TBML. As OBUs ¢an borrow funds from banks and FIs from both
home and .abroad they are more vulnerable to TBML. It. can provide finance facilities. against
purchase/supply order, corporate guarantee, personal guarantee of the. directors of company etc.
with borrowed fund. However, recovery of the fund. may not be possible due to lack of verification
of the authenticity of the documents, willful default of the borrowers and. poor or biased customer
risk assessment. In such cases Bangladeshi nationals can also siphon money if they have beneficial
ownership or control on the company in whose favour the financing facilities are provided.
In case of companies: in Special Economic Zones, directors’ liabilities are limited by ‘shares. When
the company falls into trouble due to taking more exposure’through more foreign/local loan or trade
gap, they may transfer, sell or even wind up the company keeping the outstanding liabilities in
Bangladesh. The situation arises sometimes that the company makes payment for import without
entry of the goods; or export is done but the proceeds are not realized. Keeping these liabilities
pending owners/directors transfer, sell or wind up the company and. leave: the country. Bankers
should provide: proper information to regulators in time before winding up of these companies.
Bankers: should apply enhanced due diligence while: providing 0306 and other services 10. these
companies of Economic: Zones.
In. Bangladesh, context. letter of credit: is safe compared to other mode of trade (such. as. Open
Account, Cash in Advance etc.):in TBML perspective. However, it is also undeniable that: TBML

risk may arise under LC if the LC is between parent and affiliates. or if the trade 13 justan arranged
game. Because of this, TBML risk: mitigation measures here. need. to be stringent, otherwise trade
should be facilitated by banks through LC applying adequate due diligence only.

As banking sector of the country is more vulnerable to TBML, bankers should rémain familiar
withthe different methods that may be abused for TBML. To get further insight, some case studies
in Bangladesh context are discussed in Appendix A..

C.3.5 Key Challenges and Difficulties in Preventing Trade Based Money Laundering in
Bangladesh

a) Pricé Verification for Financial Crime:Control

As discussed in 2.3. according to Import Policy Order, importers. are obligated. to import goods at
competitive prices. Banks are also. advised in the GFET, 2018 to take usual and reasonable.
cautionary measures. to ensure that the price of the goods concerned is competitive in terms of
prevailing price in the international market on the date of contract’ and/or similar imports in,
contemporary period. They are also advised to verify the above, if needed, with thé help of.
concerned Bangladesh Mission abroad. Due to lack of relevant business information, such as the
terms of business relationship, volume discounting or specific quality, or feature, specifications of.
goods involved. bankers have to be cautious in making meaningful determinations about, the
appropriateness of the unit price. Moreover, many: products are ‘not traded in public markets and
their market prices are also not publicly available. Even where goods are: publicly ttadéd, the
current ‘prices may not reflect the agreed price used ‘in any. contract of sale or purchase and. these
details will not usually be available to: the: banks. involved due to competitive sensitivity of such
information.

b) Transfer Pricing

Transfer pricing is a related party transaction commonly used by transnational corporation as part of
their financial and tax. planning strategy. Multinational organizations use transfer pricing to shift
taxable income from jurisdictions with relatively high. tax rates ‘to jurisdictions with relatively low
tax rates to minimize income. tax. Similar strategies are also: employed. in relation to import. duties
and value: added. tax. TBML can. occur when international trade is abused for transfer pricing. This
poses a significant:challenge which needs.to be overcome:

০ Limited Skilled Manpower

Performing the foreign exchange activities involves proper communication. with the client, various
banks of the country as well as abroad. A. single error may cost thousands of dollars. In Bangladesh
there are limited skilled manpower who. are able to understand and. handle the: foreign exchange

dealings very well. As such, skill development through proper training is a must.to address TBML
risk.

d) Extreme.Competition

Unhealthy competition is driving bankers to constantly hunt. for aggressive business and profit
target. Thus, working under pressure of such target combined with the fear of losing customers
and presence of other competitor banks officials sometimes ignore minor trade related due diligence
which. makes the bank a victim. to TBML. Unhealthy competition. poses a challenge’ to. combating
TBML.

e) Absence of Co-ordination

Absence of coordination is also one of the major challenges in combating TBML. A coordinated
Risk: Management Unit/Division in combination of all concerned agencies may be formed to ensure
co-ordination & concerted efforts. Besides, National Board of Revenue (specially the Valuations
and Audit unit)/, Customs and Bangladesh Banks ‘may also work to assess the value of the imported
or exported goods/commodities/services.. Arrangements may’ be in. place'so that:customs authority
and banks may be aware through mutual information sharing mechanism, when there is abnormal
increase in the number and value of LC of a particular company/firm ete:, risky import: of goods
such as, Reconditioned Capital Machinery, Software, Chemicals where complexity exists in
determining price and description of the products, cases where importer and exporter are related,
when import and export goods are inconsistent with the nature of trade of ‘the customer,
inconsistency iin ‘price: exists, when an LC. is frequently amended, where beneficiary’ desires
payment in. third country or party, when Bill of Lading does not mention container number, does
not bear invoice number, where miscellaneous. charges such as ‘freight, lading charge ৩0৫ are
abnormal ete.

f) Absence of Management Information Systems (MIS) and a Central Data Base

Lack of.MIS and a central data base or uniform price list of various commodities is also a hindrance
to preventing under invoicing and oVer-invoicing by'‘those engaged in trade operations.

g) Duty/Tax structure

At times, bankers disagree with the quoted price in the Proforma Invoice (PI), because they fail to
match the given price which is sometimes far away from the actual price of the commodity in, the
international market. In some items of imports importers may quote higher price in line with
customs’ tate of duty even though the price may’ be less: than. the price mentioned in NBR’s
minimum price list’. Though, there is no scope of tax/VAT evasion against such imports, it may be
abused. for TBML.

The Challenges and difficulties ‘faced by the sector and the specific trend. of trade-based money

laundering in Bangladesh indicates the challenging ‘task the banks have to: accomplish to protect
themselves from ‘this financial crime. The next. chapters, therefore, highlight the risk-based
framework and trade controls that banks should establish to combat trade based. money laundering
effectively.

84 |‘Page

C.3.6 TBML Risk Assessment & Mitigation Mechanism.
Trade based Money Laundering risk may arise: ‘and affect. due to inadequate infrastructure of the
bank, inaccurate assessment of the customer before: on ‘board, :poor identification and handling. of
TBML alert while conducting trade transaction by the officials concerned and; overall for failure of
the bank to address the risk at the enterprise or institute level. Hence all the banks are instructed, to
establish TBML risk assessment and mitigation at :inftastructure level, customer level, transaction
level and at enterprise level as shown. in the flowchart below.
Chart 3.1: TBML Risk Assessment & Mitigation Mechanism
‘Infrastructure Customer Level Transaction Level ' Enterprise Level —
‘Level TBML risk TBML risk TBML Risk ' TBML-risk:
‘assessment & ০৯ assessment and a> assessment.&. > assessmentiand:
_ mitigation (Chart - mitigation through mitigation.(Chart
ot 3Level Review
First comes infrastructure:risk:assessment and.mitigation. as it is impossible to implement mitigation
measures without adequate infrastructure.
Secondly, high risk customers with dubious trade transaction, give birth to trade fraud. Hence
knowing and assessing customer before on board. for trade transaction shall be of great use to
combating TBML.
Thirdly, TBML risk assessment and mitigation at the transaction level is the most important and
vital to combating this offense as it is at this level that the TBML takes place. And. finally, aholistic
approach by the entire institution can be effectively implemented through senior management
engagement: in TBML risk assessment and mitigation at enterprise level. Details are described
below.
C.3.6.1 Infrastructure Level Risk Assessment
Banks’ should develop ‘their own infrastructure for price verification, transaction monitoring and
screening in line with their exposure to international trade. The followings ‘are: indicative
suggestions that. banks should establish to combat trade-based money laundering:
¥ Standard Sanction screening process
¥ Standard for manual screening
'/ Own data base based. on transactions
/ 30108901686 for-publically available online commodity pricing’ website

Vv Vessel tracking system’.
C.3.6.2 Customer Level TBML Risk.Assessment.and Mitigation Mechanism

(a) General ML/TF Risk Assessment and Mitigation: The customer level risk asséssment
starts ‘with the establishment of customer relationship: While establishing business
relationship/account opening with the trade customer, general ML/TF risk: assessment and
mitigation’ measures as outlined in relevant. BFIU circular and ML & TF risk.management
Guidelines issued for banks by BFIU should be followed.

(b) Risk Assessment related to Trade: As in most casés there are some products and
commodities; various delivery channels and jurisdictions through which TBML occurs, it
is quite convenient to have a risk-based approach. Risk assessment should be done
following the sample model given in Table 3.1 or any. other ‘suitable model developed by
the bank (subject to vetting by BEIU), depending on their respective risk exposure and
experierice. Banks' should design a standard format to collect the required information. for
this sample model. For fresh/new customers the assessment may be done on _ the projection
submitted in the format by the customers and for the existing and old customers historical
data may be chosen. It is also recommended that banks ensure independent
évaluation/assessmerit of importers and expoiters by. their own. staff and ensure/examine,
to the extent practicable, the relationship between importers and exporters through third
parties. Customer level risk assessment for newly onboarded tradecustomer is. to. be done
before initiation of trade transactions. For existing tradecustomers, customer level risk
assessment: should be done as early as. possible but shouldnot be later than next periodic
review of KYC in-pursuiance-with BFIU circular 19.

(c) Trade related CDD/EDD: If a customer's. risk level is found low or medium, bank will
conduct: CDD ‘for the trade customers before trade transaction takes. place. However, if a
customer is assessed as high risk, this should be escalated to. Level 3 for further scrutiny
and verification. If Level 3 is satisfied, they may approve the customer for transaction after
conducting: EDD. If Level 3 is not satisfied considering the magnitude of risk, bank's:risk
appetite and, internal policy, they may reject the customer for trade transaction. After
completion of CDD/EDD, the customer will be ‘allowed to go for trade transaction.
Details of. requirements to conduct CDD/EDD ‘has been described in section. 3.2.2.2,
which are not exhaustive rather indicatives.

(0) Trade Transaction through 3 Level Review Systems: When a customer is allowed for
trade transaction, trade transaction will take place following Three Level Review System
as mentioned in section, 3.2.3

86|Page

(০) Maintaining a database of escalations with proper documentation: A database should
be established with customers assessed. as. high risk to facilitate yearly customer wise
review and assessment.
you SS #4

«- GhartS2) Custoniertevel TBME Ris Assessment and Mitigation Framework: =
i General MELEE Risks Assessmentand Ni সা
22255022550 রা |
(বা ২ 1 ০ 01
MEDS ওে ক বর RECN NASON NES Uy aos OOS EAL
a then trade related: CDD/EDD. before: Trade, Transaction». |

মুলত found highs ne Ry edfriskis‘acceptables
if 7; fordecision: . - ৷ ০৪
দা (02৭ subject eS রি . a
”- ও ” ই ও টন SS তা দা T:
ase. পীর পাদ, poca | ০০০১০০০১১১০
“ ESS ee and | andsrisicassessment .
ee SEES oe age ce | CalsGsee3 2H? “4
See PS SRS চে লী টন RASA
কি fade |? |
mo ate on গস ৩ ania
| | sransactionand?, | |
মস | a
ভি ৮ sescdlations:with:propers
| t Bocumentstons ody

(f) Review and Assessment of Customers: For high risk customers review and assessment
frequency shall be-one year, for medium risk customers this. frequency shall be every three
years and. for low risk customers it shall. bé 5 years. The:réview system mentioned above in
the Chart 3.2.2 will facilitate input for the enterprise wide risk assessment and. assist banks
to. update TBML trend and. typology and devise appropriate policy and strategy at, the
enterprise level.

C.3.6.2.1 Gustomer Level Risk. Assessment
The framework as detailed below is a sample for guidance and reference. only. Each and every
bank may opt for qualitative and quantitative ‘assessment (Q’-method), should design. their own
feasible scoring model depending on their respective risk: exposure and. experience and. get the
model vetted by BFIU.

87 | Page

Table: Sample Risk Based Model for Trade Customers
Risk. Composit
SL] Risk SL Risk Parameters e Risk
Components (0-3)° Level
Obtaine| Max || 0:088-5976):0100
dscore| 50৫01 2 Max তাও
e
[Bsr
3 Adverse Media Report ”
I ‘Customer
Demographic.
[rawr | |
[onset
দা
ডন
Jurisdiction 3
wate [ns লা
10} Jurisdiction 5
Pi তলালমলসদলদ্
fe] comes |
see | |
3‘O’ represents no risk, “1” represents low risk, ‘2’ represents medium risk and ‘3’ high risk.
aBusiness history of the: customer, frequency. of his/her trade default, his/her/its reputation in
running business etc. within:the:period. 5 Payment behavior of the customer.
6 Adverse media. report on the customer and/or the products he deals with and ‘its impact or
sensitivity. 7 Law suits filed against the customer related to his/her trade.
8 Jurisdiction with which the customer conducts import and export business, AML/CFT risk
associated. with the jurisdiction, EATF public document and other relevant lists etc.

| | া | Risk. Composit.
SL Risk SL Risk Parameters @ Risk
Component (0-3)° Level
s Obtaine| Max 0১৮০০০১৬৫০০,

ও মজ্ । ঁঁঁঁ
Far aw |
ঢ আনন্দ
Export
ড় ওক
ভা চমচম
[eran anny [|
pL সম [|
দা
রর
Transaction 23 | Number of trade
History 4 Number of escalated
TBML
Bs [Renbsrersie
a
Total= >» ০0205, Max.
| score |_score
‘Comprehensive Ris Threshold in % Actual Risk Level
o_o
High 75 % and-above
ও ee _
[ak eB 5%
আছ আদ

নন]
Relevant: data such as on jurisdiction, products, services, value & number of trade transactions: can
be obtained from. TTP. In assigning scoré banks should also take: intoaccount the factors described
in ‘section.2.4-2.6.
C.3.6.2.2 Trade Related CDD Requirements
Banks should conduct CDD in. line with risk-based framework and consider the following
requirements as suggested. below. Banks. may decide on whether the trade related. CDD
requirements will be performed at. the: time of establishing relationship/opening account with the
customer along with.conducting general. CDD or:separately before starting trade transaction.

1. Collection of:required documents & information such.as:

a. Nature of business including major goods, services and jurisdictions ‘the
customer deals with;

b. Usual delivery / transportation:mode for goods or services;

c. Major suppliers: and buyers,

d. Products and services to be utilized from the bank;

e. Existing/anticipated accountiactivities;

f Usual methods and terms. of payment and settlement;

g. Any observations/ratings on the customer by concerned departments of the bank;

h. Any previous suspicious transaction/activity reports to. BFIU;

i. Other information, from the‘relevant staff; and

j. Trade Transaction Profile.

2. Verification of the documents & information. mentioned. in 1 above through reliable. and
independent sources.

3. Ascertaining and verifying the identity of the beneficial owners of the trade customer.

4. Conducting enhance due diligence if required.

5. Record Keeping..

6. Understanding business, production, capacity; end-use of goods, the principal
counterparties, the countries where the counterparties are located and. the. goods or
services that are exchanged, as well as the: expected annual transaction. volumes and. flows

90|Page

to conduct Customer Due Diligence (CDD) for trade customers.

7. Updating CDD information. in accordancé with BFIU Circulars and ML&TF Risk
Management Guidelines.

8. Maintaining customer wise trade transaction profile (TTP) including items of goods, value,
volume, nature of business, aiid. principal counterparty country etc. A sample is given at
Appendix- C. TTP should be made available. to Level 1, 2 & 3 so'that they can easily
check that ‘a, transaction is within the agreed profile of the customer. Until TTP is
integrated, within core banking system, it may remain offline: outside of the core banking
system. Level 2 shall conduct TTP review and decide on certain transactions escalated by
Level 1. If necessary, Level 3 may also consult TTP while taking ultimate decision. on
transactions escalated by Level 2. Post facto review of TTP against. trade transactions may.
be: conducted at least annually to identify TBML Alerts.

9. The CDD processes are expected to include “feed-back loops” where a trigger event
in a transaction or normal review process leads to new information or questions about a
relationship. Objective behind updating of the CDD profile is to ensure that. the
information in the CDD profile is current. The reviews may also lead to the status of the
relationship with the customer being escalated for decisions related to additional controls
being applied:or the exit of the customer.

10. Banks should develop their own process of “customer/transaction level risk assessment”
based on their risk éxposure.

91|Page

C.3.6.3 Transaction Level TBML Risk Assessment: &. Mitigation through 3 Level Review
System
Depending on. TBML risks trade. transactions shall be disambiguated at level 1 or shall require
escalations to level 2 of level 3. before they 816. executed or rejected and réported. to BFIU as
STR/SAR. All three levels, their roles and responsibilities; escalation, review. and disambiguation
systems have been described below:
C.3.6.3.1 Level. 1
Level 1 generally includes the transaction processors, 1.6. maker, checker, authorizer, reviewer,
verifier, designated officials.
Roles and.Responsibilities at Level 1.

i. Ensure that the customer has a current, approved KYC record and TTP in place before

processing transactions.

ii, Perform TBML.Alert analysis and Sanction screening and execute transaction.
iit. Escalate TBML Alerts/Potential hits of the transactions to Level 2, whererequired.
iv. Escalate Suspicious Transactions/Activities to Level 2.

v. Keep record properly.
Level 1 Review, Disposition and Escalation Guidance:
Every trade ‘transaction should undergo TBML Alerts analysis and sanction screening. Initial
TBML Alert analysis and screening should be completed at Level 1. The ‘required elements of
TBML.Alert analysis and.screening are set.forth as below.
Maker or:processor will review the transactions and identify relevant ML, TF, Sanction and TBML
Alert and raise them to checker, reviewer, verifier, authorizer or designated. officials who will
further review the transactions and TBML. Alerts. When needed, reviewer will examine through
different channels i.e internet, telephone, email etc. to get more information related to the
transaction for the disposition of 00096 TBML Alerts with proper rationales and the mitigating
factors. This TBML Alert analysis represents the minimum amount of due diligence. required for
each trade: transaction, before it may be executed. In addition, Level 1 officials should use their
expertise and experience to evaluate each transaction on its merits and escalate any. potential
concerns to Level 2. If checker, ‘authorizer, or designated officials cannot disambiguate or resolve
the TBML Alert at level 1, he/she will escalate those TBML Alerts to Level 2. Level | disposition
should be:documented. for'periodic review.
92 [Page

০১ ২৮১১১০০১০০২ ৯১২ ১২২০৩০১১০৯৯ ৯ ৩১৭৭
টাটা টম CRT কট OEE
ক TEN OES Cn corner =f tea দল | EROS SN টব IO LON OR oS 11"
SPrOceesors Designated opicials রর [SES =aj'| Processors/ Designated ‘offiicials)'\ |,
Lh rocess ore esienated oFicials). = |. Pie Gee e iL,
“willscrbnze TRMEAters:: | Lil. | _wullalso screen Sanchon'lists.. |)
She po ines
শু Bx ৮ pits eG সত
Senay UR encase es e সম Li pete te
x জে eres 53৯ inate’
B os ১১০৩ পি রে ye Sas. EA ie
SSS cise Escalate to a5 ESE
af evel 2/Officiats:(Tradé Compliarice/Trade HeadAy |. ;
VEC লগ্ন কলে ge GLE REAP iE বে ay
ee designated officials) will Reviewiand Eearine’ fi ee
DART fe ‘Match *: <[--e--e |S
টু _ es: _ Panes fi —eProcess'the; —)"
paar) SEES eee rr strearisachions -
tA Positive Match; |
নট টম ty a
Rs পু রা
TSS কস রে
aR Eee
C0) SRE eae
a রর Om cial (DCAMEC Ofasiassigned:byz— *)."
ছে SCAMECO) wil further Reviewand’ দা
চে ——— = ra fee
7 . l = ,
= ay a ও ০৪ Match:
Sem 2৬৬০০ eee SERS oes
| Sie. melatedtoMi/Sancton |v . ieee ——e
U 2. |, ij POSES TE নি Kame |
5 | Reject th SOT | দেহে ও 11
i): FanP Hie STRISARY { | ও
ie = A চল ই লট কই]
— ff 1১ 1
wis
চকে ote A EN Ra tot Son ey
SY ts ain as ase Oba শ১
i PARED তত এ |
|. ০2 = on ae “
Int লা তা স্স্ে 1
93 |.Page

Illustration 1:
Subject: AML concern ref. 123abc...., Applicant or Buyer: XYZ, Singapore, Consignee: POR,
Columbia, Goods shipped to: Columbia, Beneficiary: ABC Co. 14৫. Bangladesh, Applicant
Bank: ABC Bank Ltd, Singapore, Value: USD 50,000.00 Goods: Handicrafts
This is ‘an Export Bill in which the goods, “Handicrafts” is being shipped to Columbia.
The following TBML. Alerts are: identified:
1. Buyer is from Singapore; goods are consigned and shipped to Columbia:
2. High Risk Country: Coltimbia. (as. referred to. in
www. fatfgafi.org/countries/H#high- risk, for high-risk countries)
3. High Risk Goods: Handicrafts.
Resolution by Level-1:
1. Ok to process since Goods are shipped as per export contract.
2. Ok to process since Buyer has an-agent:in Columbia to sell. the goods.
3. Ok to process since Bangladeshi exporter’s line of business :is to export
handicrafts.
Illustration 2: From: Level 1 to: Level. 2
Subject: AML concern ref. 1l23abc Applicant: XYZ Trading Co., Lagos, Nigeria,
Beneficiary: ABC Co. Ltd, Bangladesh; Issuing Bank: ABC Bank Ltd, Nigeria, Value: USD
50,000.00
This is an export LC in which: goods, “Sugarcane” is being shipped to: Nigeria.
The followings aré the TBML. Alerts observed:
a. Goods are inconsistent, with beneficiary’s business line.
৮. Port of. loading not provided in the LC.
c. Price per unit ofthe sugarcane appears to be high.
d. High risk country: Nigeria.
After getting resolution/decision.from Level 2, Level. 1 will act accordingly.
C.3.6.3.2 Level 2
Level 2 generally includes officials with adequate expertise able to further analyze the merits of an
escalation from Level 1 processor and the relevant suspicion itself. They are likely to’ require:
94|Page

extensive knowledge of trade-based money laundering‘risk and make appropriate-use: of third-party
data sources"' to verify key information. Level 2 officials may. be trade compliance officer/Head.
of. trade or designated officials. In any case, they should have adequate seniority and skill to
conduct the role-of level 2.
Roles and. Responsibilities at Level 2
i. Review and examine the TBML Alerts raised by level 1.
il. Review TTP on certain Alerts.
iii, | Disambiguate with proper rationale: and justification.
iv. ‘Document properly.
Level 2 Review, Disposition and Escalation Guidance.
All transactions that contain potential TBML Alerts and sanction. hits and that: cannot be resolved.
by Levell processor should be escalated to Level 2.
Level. 2 shall deeply analyze the alerts escalated to them and. determine théir merit. If they can.
easily resolve them with adequate justification they shall ৫0:50 with documents and instruct Level 1
to allow the transaction, otherwise escalate to Level 3. However, if TBML risk appears very low to
Level, 2, yet for certain reasons they cannot resolve TBML. Alerts, they may allow transactions
escalating the Alert(s) to Level 3. If, after the transaction Level 3 finds the transaction suspicious,
STR shall be submitted.
Illustration 1: From: Level 1 to: Level 2
Subject; AML concern ref: 123abce...., Applicant: XYZ Trading Co., Lagos, Nigeria, Beneficiary:
ABC Co. Ltd, Bangladesh, Issuing Bank: ABC Bank.Ltd in Nigeria, Value: USD 50,000.00
This is an export LC in which the goods, “Sugarcane” is being shipped’to. Nigeria.The following are:
the TBML.Alerts observed:
a. Goods are'inconsistent with, beneficiary’s business line.
৮. Port of loading:is not provided-in the LC.
০. Price per‘unit of the Sugarcane appears to be high.
d. High risk country: Nigeria.
Resolution by Level 2:
a. D&B search on the beneficiary confirms that it is involved in the export arid. import of
sugarcane and. sugar products.
৮. The amendment received from the issuing bank confirmed that the ‘port of loading.is
Chattogram, Bangladesh.
95|Page

০০ Unit price provided is consistent with the current market price available online:
d. High-risk country: Nigeria
Since applicant is registered in Nigeria ‘and shipment is also made to Nigeria, it is ০100 process the
transaction. Level 2 shall instruct Level 1 to conduct the transaction.
Illustration 2:
Subject: AML concern ref, 123abce...., against an:import LC for importing 10 (ten) 1500ce Toyota
Cars.. Applicant: XYZ Automobile Co., Bangladesh, Beneficiary: ABC Co. Ltd, in. Hong Kong.
Issuing Bank: XY Bank Ltd, Value? USD 60;000.00
While scrutinizing the documents TBML Alerts: mentioned below have been, identified by Level
processors.and escalated to Level 2:
1. Current market ‘price of these 10 cars are $100,000.00 whereas the invoice shows it as
$60,000.00 (price variance identified is $40,000.00)
2. Applicant and beneficiary are related parties.
3. High risk product is involved.
Further analysis and escalation by. Level 2 to Level.3:
Designated. Level 2 officers have: further scrutinized these TBML Alerts and they could not
disambiguate these TBML Alerts. As such they further escalated to Level 3 stating same alerts as
mentioned by Level 1.
After getting resolution/decision,from Level 3 they will inform. Level 1 accordingly.
C.3.6.3.3 Level 3
Level. 3 generally includes. officials with vast experience and expertise on trade based. money
laundering process. Level 3 should be able to further assess the merits ofan escalation from Level 2.
officials. Level 3 generally:includes DCAMLCO/officials as assigned by CAMLCO.
Roles and Responsibilities at'Level 3
i. Conduct comprehensive review and examine the TBML Alerts raised by Level 2.
ii, Consult TTP if.necessary:.
iil. -Disambiguate with. proper rationale. and justification.
iv. Eile STR/SAR where-required.
v. Document properly.
96|Page

Level 3 Review and Disposition Guidance.
Level. 3 shall complete a comprehensive review and determine if there are facts that reasonably
mitigate the TBML Alerts associated. with, the transaction, or if the transaction appears to be
suspicious. If Level 3 identifies facts that reasonably mitigate each of the TBML Alerts
associated with the transaction, then Level 3 shall explain and. document the mitigating factors for
each alert.and allow ‘the‘transaction'to proceed.
If the TBML. Alerts are not resolved and the activity or transaction remains suspicious, then Level 3
shall prepare a Suspicious Activity/Transaction Report.
Level, 3 shall determine whether the activity or transaction in. question should be permitted. or
rejected and whether the activity or transaction warrants a.Suspicious Activity Report. If Level 3 is.
apparently satisfied. with. the available information, he/she may approve ‘the transaction with a
remark for ‘further scrutiny or more information for complete satisfaction on ‘post. facto basis.
Before submission. of: STR/SAR to BFIU, CAMLCO shall ensure compliance with due, procedure,
required data and documents in line with the instructions given in relevant BFIU circular.
All Level. 2 and. Level 3 escalation dispositions of TBML Alerts: or screening hits should. be
properly documented.
Illustration. 1:
Subject: AML concern ref. 123abc....,against an import LC for importing 10 (ten) 1500cc Toyota
Cars. Applicant: XYZ Automobile 00. Bangladesh, Beneficiary: ABC Co. Ltd, in Hong Kong.
Issuing Bank:.XY Bank Ltd, Value: USD. 60,000.00
While. scrutinizing the documents, TBML Alerts mentioned below are identified by Level 1
processors and escalated* to Level 2:

1. Current ‘market price of these 10 cars are $100,000.00 whereas ‘the invoice shows it, as.

$60,000.00 (price variance identified is $40,000.00)

2. Applicant and beneficiary are related parties.

3. High risk product is involved.
Further Examination and escalation by Level 2 to Level 3:
Designated Level 2 officers have further examined these TBML Alerts and. they could not
disambiguate these alerts. As such they further escalated.to Level.3 with same rationales:
Level 3 designated official also examined the TBML Alerts and found. that the alerts are: validand
rejected the transaction with rationale given below:

= Under-invoicing is. attempted through this LC: application. since the invoice price is quoted

much below the ‘fair or competitive market price. So, it is recommended to reject the:

transaction.

« Level 3 official filed an STR against this money’ laundering attempt by the importer in

Bangladesh.
Illustration 2:
Subject: ML/TF concern ref. 123abc....,against an inward remittance to be processed as advance
receipt against export through Advance Receipt Voucher (ARV) at the request of exporter ABC Co.
Ltd, in Bangladesh. For Value: USD 15,000.00 buyer, XYZ Co. in China.
TBML Alerts identified and. escalated from. Level 1 to Level 2 are described below:

1. Swift message does not.mention ‘purpose and there is. no. reference in the message toconnect
‘this remittance with the advance payment. Only customer’s instruction mentions that this is
advance:receipt for export.

2. The bonafides of buyer is not.ensured.,

3. Shipment date is unusually longer i.e 9 (nine) months, whereas goods: are ready‘made
garments that need maximum 4 months for shipment.

4. This exporter has also received more advance payments earlier against: which shipment has.
not yet been made.

Further examination and escalation by Level 2. to Level 3:

Designated Level 2 officers have reviewed: these TBML Alerts and. they further escalatedthese
alerts to Level 3 with the same rationales as stated by Level | officials. Level 3 designated. official.
also reviewed and examined. the TBML Alerts and disambiguatedthese alerts with the rationales
below:

1. Though swift message: does not mention the purpose or reference, buyer is
mentioned as same. Moreover, export contract shows the payment term as
advance payment. Besides, exporter has declared the purpose as advance
payment against export in the request letter. He also submitted the ARV and
copy of the contract against this transaction.

2. Further examination shows that buyer is a trading company who also trades
ready- made garments.

3. Some shipments may take longer‘period.

It is ok to go-aliead with this transaction 83 the exporter has, track record of shipment default after
receiving advance payment. In this. case advance payment of the customer should. be released.
However, if shipment is not done after reasonable time period.and bank is not satisfied, bank should
report to regulators. The sample review process as described above is not: intended. to be

prescriptive. Banks should tailor their own review process to their ‘particular needs.
99|Page

C.3.6.4 Screening System

1) Sanction screening should be conducted .on individual, entity, banks, insurer, NGO/NPO,
country, port, flag, vessel etc. The. screening should also be conducted on all the parties
involved in. the transaction. and geographic location to the transaction, suchas seller of the
goods, the shipping company, any agents or third parties, countries or ports. etc. that. appear in
the transactions.

2) For sanction screening it is important to ensure that there is no “risk-based approach” —i.e.only
screening certain transaction or parties. All parties (known fo the bank) related to. the
‘transactions at the time and additional parties, that come into: the picture as the transaction
progresses are:required to be screened.

3) Vessel tracking (origin port, transshipment, destination port) and its voyage history should be
tracked. to determine whether it has docked at.embargoed countries during its, previous voyage
and dealt with sanctioned entities or embargoed goods. It should be. borne. in mind that vessels
may change their names but cannot change their IMO number; hence cross-checking IMO
number through a:reliable source is:recommended.

4) Care should also be taken to PEPs/IPs. screening, adverse media screening, High Risk Country
screening.

5) .A combination of automated and manual controls will be relevant in the context of AML and
counter-terrorist. financing (CTF) efforts. Typically, the following elements are, but not limited
to, checked. via automated /manual procedure:

1. Unit prices
ii: Number of items shipped
111. Shipping:marks
iv. Trade term.— often.an Incoterms rule followed by a:place
v. Commercial contract
vi. The documentary credit applications
vil. The guarantee applications
‘viii, The.documents presented under import documentary credits
ix. The-documents presented under’ export documentary. credits
x. The documents presented. under import documentary collections
মা. The documents presentéd ‘under-export documentary collections
xii. Guarantee demands
100 [Page

সা, Al! incoming and-outgoing non-SWIFT messages etc.
101. [Page

C.3.6.5 Price Verification
Banks should develop their own, database and. frame clear ‘policies and ‘procedures to guide ‘trade
processing staff in. performing price checks. The policies should, ata minimum, mention the level
of acceptable price variance and escalation procedures when significant pricé difference is
identified. Provision of different threshold for different types of underlying goods and services may
be allowed on the basis of periodic market price assessment. ‘To enhance the effectiveness of the
price checks, the process may be centralized or automated; otherwise care should;be taken to ensure
avoidance of any conflict: of interest.
C.3.6.6 TBML Alerts
KYC process is the, foundation on which ‘the individual transaction should be evaluated/ examined
for TBML. Alerts. However, compliance checks carried out: on the trade finance transactions are, to
a large degree, Manual. This requires a structured risk-based approach to identify, escalate and
examine:unusual/suspicious activities. One such approach is to work with “TBML Alerts.”
C.3.7 Enterprise/Institute Wide TBML Risk Assessment and Mitigation
i. ‘Ensure Enterprise-wide TBML risk assessment.

ii. -Review Policy Strategy depending on TBML risk assessment.

ili. Take:into. account. gaps found through annual review as shown.in 3.2.4.1

iv. Review new. trend and. typology related to TBML. and include relevant

ones forguidance.

v. Revisit TBML-Alerts to: mitigate the risks.
C.3.7.1 Enterprise/ Institutional Level Risk Management of ‘Trade Based Money Laundering
Framework
As an enterprise Bank shall. assess its TBML risk exposure using holistic approach. Inassessing
enterprise level risk assessment, it shall. obtain ‘and use input from: internal. source, external. sources
and from review of international regulatory changes. The following diagram is a sample how, on
the basis of assessment, institutional/enterprise- level risk management of trade-based ‘money
laundering and terrorist financing may work in abank:
102 [Page

: input from . | input:trom/Internal‘sourceforrisk: ae ‘Hnput from! I
“External | || SASSeSSIMCHMORMeTAStituGon: | | || Regulatory” |!
| ERvitonmieny; | [রং 0058 888 Onmtde basa money; ||| | “CRanges:: if
|) actors > |: 3 | | Gaunderinevenideliness Ne | eeRewtews |)
| ৯ dentify? 9... র্‌ as: Review the databaseiofevelSe | «il (I “GOR মি he
: »By Beviewing) | UL, Sageneorobthecistonier Hl sregulatorys =| |
i) snewstrends:and: || |i <G@onsolidate-overallnoxofAlerisraisédtos|||| || -CHariges:
“| typologies: =~ yr > Plevel'3;and ‘how: theyewereaddresseda i i |: |
‘|. Peisksountry মর nena |
| | Bex sReviewstotheextentpracticables BME |
ip eee GRRE EOL ESS Gir SERIE NERS লস ৷
apo... falerted'counterpart:[foramport.; , |
|| (Applicantimportery) ৷
| সমল “Revisitthe existing ০ ০ 1
|| SERpEt OMT he Modeling 22) 03১৪3 ০৯:
সক পে জং বাং were ০১-৮১-০১০০: ee SR, eet mapa
; 1 Spreviotisiyear operation arid: knowledse? ৷
| : oo ia 3 iat rein ke ae a TRAD NR Bie টু fa!
|. *qBanyzzecent:techniques‘used by: trade:
ঢা _based money laundererss: ,
ক ptatbwultonadh gO) casa) alge TA dig eg nintm See Rg! |
‘fits | REMIRE Policy Sif tidanneritequied.
" PREMIO MAGUS tome re SEISIe aSSeSSMC RAS Pen:
‘| (RBA model: OTE ses \ |
i]. Propose New Stiatesyand:Policyto
| ০ সস রর Sl
রটে 11251 ~~~ ~~ iN
7 Se .
th 4. Bee উস wae : _ এছ axe . SERA OER: yt I
|| ই Approval by Boar MANCON | °
10 . . ?foxeimplémentation: - ‘yl
C.3.7.2 Suspicious Transaction/Activity Reporting
a) STR/SAR reporting should be done in accordance with the procedure shown :in the Chart
above. Before submission of STR/SAR, DCAMLCO (if not level 3) and CAMLCO shall only
ensure compliance with instructions of relevant BETU circular. Risk of tipping off should also
‘be managed.
b) Banks should always file an STR/SAR when required to do so under MLPA, ATA andrelevant
BFIU circulars. In complex situations banks may. seek opinion from.BFIU.
103 [Page

C.4 FATE Blacklist and Gray List
The FATF ‘identifies jurisdictions with weak. measures to combat money laundering and terrorist
financing (AML/CFT) intwo FATF public, documents containing black. list and. grey list:
jurisdictions that are issued three times'a year. As of June 2023, the EATF ‘has reviewed over 125
countries and jurisdictions and. publicly identified 98 of them. Of thesei98, 72 have since. made the
necessary reforms to address their AML/CFT weaknesses and have been removed from the process.
C.4.1 High-Risk Jurisdictions subject to a Call for Action (ie. "black list")
High-risk. jurisdictions have significant strategic ‘deficiencies in their regimes. to counter money
laundering, terrorist financing, and financing of proliferation. For all countries identified as high-
risk, the FATF calls on all members: and urges. all jurisdictions to ‘apply enhanced. due diligence,
and, in the. most serious: cases, countries are called upon to apply counter-measures to protect the
international. financial system from the money laundering, terrorist financing, and proliferation,
financing (ML/TF/PF) risks emanating from the country. This list is often externally referred to as
the “black list”. Currently (as. of 19 August 2023) the following jurisdictions are on the black list

1. Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) [unchanged since February 2020]

2. Iran [unchanged since February 2020]

3. Myanmar
C.4.2 Jurisdictions under Increased Monitoring (i.e. "grey list")
When the EATF places a jurisdiction under increased monitoring, it means the country has
committed to resolve swiftly the identified strategic deficiencies within agreed. timeframes. and is
subject to increased. monitoring. This list is often externally referred to as the grey. list.
Jurisdictions under increased monitoring actively work with the FATF to address strategic
deficiencies in their regimes to counter money’ laundering, terrorist financing, and. proliferation.
financing. When. the FATF places a jurisdiction under increased monitoring; it means the country
has. committed ‘to resolve swiftly the identified strategic deficiencies within agreed. timeframes and
is subject to increased monitoring.
Countries that are on the grey list of FATF are Albania, Barbados, Burkina Faso, Cayman Islands,
Democratic Republic: of Congo, Gibraltar, Jatiaica, Jordan, Mali, Mozambique, Panama,
Philippines, Senegal, South Africa, South Sudan, Tirkiye, UAE, and Uganda, Haiti, Nigeria, Syria,
Tanzania‘and Yemen, Cameroon, Croatia and Vietnam.

104[(Page

Module D: Prevention, Detection and. Reporting

D. 1 Customer Due Diligence (CDD) and Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD)

D.1.1. Obligations under MLPA, 2012 (Including amendments of 2015)

The reporting organizations shall have to maintain complete and correct information with regard to

the identity of its customers during the operation, of their accounts and, provide with the information.

maintained under the clause to: Bangladesh.Financial Intelligence Unit (BFIU).

D.1.2 Obligations under'MLP Rules, 2019

The Bank shall identify the customer (whether permanent or' occasional, and whether natural or

legal person or legal arrangement) and verify that, customer’s identity using reliable, independent

source documents, data or information (identification. data). The verification of identity of a

customer:or a beneficial owner should include a series of independent checks and inquiries and not

rely only on documents. provided by the customer or beneficial owner. The Bank shall verify. that

any person purporting to act on behalf of the customer'is so authorized, and identify and verify the

identity of that person.

The Bank shall identify the beneficial owner and take reasonable: measures to verify the identity of

the beneficial owner, using the relevant':information. or data obtained from a reliable source, such

that the Bank is satisfied that it knows: who the beneficial owner ‘is.

The Bank shall understand. and, as appropriate, obtain information.on, the purpose and. intended.

nature of the business relationship. The Bank shall also conduct’ ongoing due diligence on the

business relationship.

The Bank: shall. scrutinize ‘the transactions undertaken by a customer throughout the relationship

with. the customer to ensure that the transactions aré consistent with the nature, business: and risk:

profile of the ciistomer, including where necessary, with the source of finds.

D.1.3 Who are Customers:

In. the money laundering and terrorist financing. risk management, ‘Customer’ shall mean. the

following: individual or entity:

1) Any individual or’entity maintaining account or having business. relationship with the bank;

105[Page

2) Beneficial Owner of bank account or business relationship (for whom account is being
operated directly or-indirectly. This subject matter is elaborately discussed in Guidelines on
Beneficial Ownership.);

3) Any: professional intermediary (Lawyer, Legal Consultancy Firm, Chartered Accountant
etc.), appointed to operate the account of any account holder, Trust or beneficial owner,
within the existing legal framework;

4) Any individual or entity making high valued occasional. transaction. by a single transaction or.
any: individual or entity related to a financial transaction that can cause reputational and .any
other risk to the organization (here ‘high value transaction is defined as such transaction
‘which seems 1009 unusual to the profession/profile ofthe relevant.individual or entity); and

5) Any individual or entity defined. by BFIU from time to time.

D.1.3.1 Know Your Customer (KYC)
In money Jaundering’ and terrorist financing risk management, the. compliance of the. following:
points shall have to be assured,in obtaining and. verifying customer’s identity:

1). To open accotint of the customer, the prescribed account opening ‘form issued by Banking
Regulation and Policy Department (BRPD) of Bangladesh Bank has to be used. However,
considering the convenience of applying modern technology, when necessary, the direction
in this regard described in ‘Guidelines on Electronic Know Your Customer (e-KYC)’ issued
by BFIU should be taken into consideration. Hard copy of account opening form can be
‘used if‘any' inconvenience arises to open account using electronic system;

2) Complete and ‘accurate information regarding customer’s identification needs to be
collected. Each bank: should have thorough. understanding of the putpose for account
opening by the customer and :need to verify the information or data related to customer
identification in order to ensure that the banking channel might not be prone to the risk of
money laundering and terrorist financing. To obtain or preserve such complete and accurate
information, complete refers: to the combination of all necessary information for verifying
identification of the applicant or account holder and on ‘the other hand, accurate refers to
such,complete information that’s. accuracy has been verified from reliable and independent
sources.

3). If any other individual operates the account on behalf of a customer then, complete and.
accurate information of that individual ‘need to be collected after being confirmed that the
said individual is appropriately authorized.

106 | Page .

4) In case of the account operated by Trustee and Professional intermediaries 01) behalf of a.
customer, complete and accurate information, of everyone related to such intermediaries
have to be collected after reviewing their legal status and determining its appropriateness;
and

5) ‘In the event of providing banking service to any Walk-in Customer (i.e- DD, TT, MT, Pay
Order or online transaction etc.) directives mentioned in different paragraphs of this circular
need to be followed. In this regard, Walk-in-Customer refers.to non-accountholder of 0016.
bank.

D.1.4 Customer Due Diligence-CDD:

Customer Due Diligence or CDD means ensuring customer (individual or entity) identity based on,
information, data and documents. received, from reliable and independent source, regular monitoring
of the said information or data and transaction along with verifying the accuracy of the collected.
information or data and source of fund. It is to be noted that, obtaining customer. information.
(KYC) properly and verifying these, is a part of CDD measures.

D.1.4.1Timing of CDD

Bank must apply CDD measures when it-does any of the following:

০ While establishing business relationships;

০ While dealing with occasional/ walk-in customers

০ While carrying out an occasional transaction;

০ While suspecting money laundering or terrorist financing;

০ While suspecting the veracity of documents, data or information previously obtained
for the purpose of identification or verification;

০ While allowing’ mandate and/ or hold mail facilities to customers;

০ While re-activating of Dormant/ Inopeérative Accounts;

o In other situations, /scenarios ive. if there is any suspicion of money
laundering/Terrorist financing activities or if there is any doubt about.the veracity’ or
adequacy of customer’s profile.

D:1.5.List ‘of. Customers'Forbidden‘ to Open-Account with::

= Proscribed Individuals, Groups and Entities declared/ listed by UNSCR. (United Nations
Security Council Resolutions) and/ or by Bangladesh Domestic Sanction List or those who
are known for their association with such entities and persons, whether under the proscribed.
name or with a. different name;

107(Page

০ Accounts in Anonymous or / Fictitious Name/Numbered accounts; Accounts in. the Name
of/ for Shell Banks/ Companies;

2 Accounts. of Government/ Semi Government/ Autonomous Body in ‘personal/individual
names; Accounts of NGO, NPO, Trusts, Co-operative Societies, Charities or like Customers
in personal/ individual names; Accounts, where there are reasonable doubt or suspicion
arises for the veracity of customer's profile, or for the beneficial ownership of the account.
or for any Money: Laundering / Terrorist Financing. Activity (ies);

‘2 Accounts, where customer does not provide the required information/ documents in relation
to Bank‘s mandatory CDD/'EDD measures; and/ or Bank is not satisfied with credentials of
customers in terms of AML/CFT regime.

D.1.6 Politically Exposed Persons (PEPS) & Influential Persons (IPS)
Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) as well as. their family members and persons known to be close
associates are required to be subject to undertake enhanced due. diligence by ‘a. reporting
organization. in, general. This is because international standards issued by the FATF recognize that:
PEP may be in a position to dbuse:their public office, political power for‘private gains and PEP may
use the financial system. to launder the illicit: gains. As FATF says ,,these requirements are
preventive (not criminal) in nature, and should not be interpreted as stigmatizing PEPs as such.
being involved in criminal activity. The FATF has. categorized PEPs into 3 (three) criteria ‘which
include:
0 Foreign PEPs;.
0 Domestic: PEPs (known as Influential.Persons: IPs in Bangladesh) and.
D Chief or-similar high-ranking positions in an international organization.
It is important to note that only foreign PEPs automatically should be treated as high risk and
therefore a reporting organization should conduct Enhanced. Due Diligerice (EDD). in this scenario.
However, EDD should be undertaken in case of domestic PEPs (Influential Persons: IPs) and,PEPs
of the international organization when such customer’relationship ‘is identified as higher risk.
D.1.6.1 Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs)
PEPs. refer to “Individuals who are or have been. entrusted with prominent public functions by a.
foreign country, for example Heads of State: or of government, senior politicians, senior
government, judicial or military officials, senior executives of state-owned corporations, important
political party officials.” AML & CFT Division should preserve data of such accounts at their end.
The following individuals of other foreign countries:must always be classed.as PEPs:

108 [Page )

i. Heads and deputy heads of state or government;
ii. | Senior members of ruling party,
ili. Ministers, deputy ministers and assistant ministers;
iv. Members of parliament and/or national legislatures;
v. Members of the governing bodies of:major political parties;
vi. Members of: supreme ০০৮1, cofistitutional courts or other high-level judicial bodies whose.
decisions. are not.subject'to further appeal, except in-exceptional circumstances;
vil. Heads of the armed forces, other high-ranking members of the armed forces and heads of the
intelligence services;
viii. Heads of state-owned enterprises.
D:1.6.2 Influential,Persons: (IPs),
‘Influential persons’ refer to, “Individuals who are or have been entrusted ‘with prominent public
functions ‘in Bangladesh, for example. Heads of State or of government, senior politicians, senior
government, judicial or military officials, senior executives of state-owned corporations, important.
political, party officials.” AML, & CFT Division should preserve: the list of accounts, approval
records. as well as monitor the transactions at their end.
The following individuals must always be classed as Influential persons:
৩ Heads and deputy heads. of'state or government;
© ~=Senior members of ruling party;
০ Ministers, state ‘ministers:and deputy ministers;
০ Members of'parliament and/or national legislatures;
০ Members of the. governing. bodies of major political parties;
© Secretary, Additional secretary, joint secretary’in the ministries;
০ Judges of supreme courts, constitutional courts or other high-level judicial bodies whose:
decisions are not subject-to. further appeal, except in exceptional circumstances;
০ Governors, deputy governors, executive directors and general managers of central Bank;
০ Heads of the armed forces, other high-ranking members of the armed forces. and heads of
‘the intelligence services;
০ Heads of-state-owned enterprises;
০ Members ofthe governing bodies of local political parties;
০ Ambassadors, chargés d’affaires or other senior diplomats;
e City mayors or heads of municipalities who exercise genuine political or economic power;
০ Board members of state-owned. enterprises of national. political or economic importance.
109|Page

D.1.6.3 Chief executive of any international organization or any top level. official
Persons who are or have been entrusted with a prominent function by an international organization
refers to members of senior management, 1.5. directors, deputy directors and:members of the boards
or equivalent functions.” The heads of international organizations. and agencies that exercise.
genuine political or economic influence (e.g. the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund,
the World Bank, the World. Trade Organization, The: International Labor Organization) must
always be classed. as this category. AML & CFT Division should preserve ‘the list of accounts,
approval records as well ‘as monitor the:transactions at their end.
D.1.6.4 Close Associate 013 PEP/IP
An individual, who 1s known to have joint beneficial ownership or control. of legal entities or legal
arrangements, or any other close business relations with the PEP/IP; and an. individual who has sole
beneficial ownership. or control of.a legal entity or legal arrangement which is known. to have been
set up for the benefit of the PEP/IP:
In addition, it should include any person publicly or widely known to be a-close business colleague
of the PEP/IP, including personal advisors, consultants, lawyers, accountants, colleagues or the
PEP’s fellow. shareholders and any person(s) that could potenitially benefit significantly from close
business associations: with the PEP/IP. AML & CFT Division should preserve the list of accounts,
approval records as well ‘as monitor‘the ‘transactions at their end.
D.1.6.5 Approval for PEP/IP Account Opening
Prior approval. from CAMLCO ‘is required for opening accounts of PEPs and IPs. These types of
accounts can be treated as high. risk accounts: by default and therefore Enhanced Due: Diligence
(EDD) must be performed for opening and. operating such accounts in-relation ‘to combat financing
of terrorism.
Moreover, while opening account of close associate or family members of Politically Exposed.
Persons (PEPs defined by the BFIU Master circular 26 dated June 16, 2020, enhanced due diligence
will have to be exercised. If the customer falls in such categories, then, the account will
automatically become a High Risk Account.
Following instructions will have to be followed to ensure Enhanced, Due Diligence, while opening
and operating the such accounts:

110[Page

1. obtain. senior management approval ‘including concurrence from Chief Anti Money
Laundering Compliance Officer (CAMLCO) for establishing business relationships
with such customers;

li. a tisk, management system will have. to be introduced. to identify risks associated.
with the opening and operating accounts of such customers;

111. take reasonable measures to establish the source of wealth and source of funds;.

Iv. ongoing monitoring of'the'transactions have to: be conducted; and

Vv. the Bank should observe all formalities as detailed in Policies for Foreign Exchange
Transactions while opening accounts of nonresidents;

The above. instructions will also be applicable to customers or beneficial owners who become such.
customers after business relationship have been established:
D.1.7 Bank’s. Policy on_Dealing with Occasional/ Walk-In Customers

> Occasional. or walk-in-customer means, “a person conducting occasional transactions and is
not a.customer having relationship with the Bank”.

> Occasional tratisaction” or “walk-in-transaction” means.a transaction carried by or on behalf
ofa person who is not:a customer; having‘relationship with. the Bank”.

» While conducting transactions of such customers, branches should obtain copies of their
Photo: ID documents and/ or capture the information in:the system, as per BFIU Policies and.
Bank’s internal procedures.

» Any Transaction made by occasional/walk-in Customers above or equal to BDT 500000.00
shall be executed prior obtaining CDD measures.

৯ ‘Transaction above BDT 50,000 but below BDT 500,000 shall be executed upon obtaining
Valid photo ID of the: applicant/sender/withdrawer/beneficiary and contact details such as
‘Name, address, telephone number etc.

» Transaction. upto BDT 50,000 shall be executed, upon obtaining contact details such. as
Name, address, telephone number etc ofthe applicant/sender/withdrawer/beneficiary.

D.1.8 Management of Legacy Accounts

Legacy accounts refer those accounts opened prior to 30 April, 2002 and. yet to update KYC
procedures. These legacy accounts should be treated as "Dormant". No withdrawal should be
permitted in those accounts; however, deposit can be. permitted. These accounts will be. fully
functional only after conducting proper CDD measures. AML & CFT Division. should preserve
data of such accounts at their end.
TT Page

D.1.9 Accounts/ Transactions where CDD measures are not completed

In case, where Bank is not.able to satisfactorily complete the required CDD measures, account shall.
not be opened or service shall not be provided. Further, if CDD of any existing customer is found.
unsatisfactory, the relationship should be treated as high risk, and be reported as suspicious to AML
& CFT Division for ‘considering the filing of STR with BFIU, and/ or taking any other suitable
action.as per BFIU Circular’No. 26.

D.1.10 Customer Identification

1, Customer identification. is an essential, element. of KYC standards. For proper identification a.

customer includes the following:

০ the person or entity that maintains an account with the Bank: or those on whose behalf an.
account is maintained (i.e. beneficial owners);

০ Any person or entity connected with a occasional transaction of single high value, single
transaction Occasional. transaction or who can. pose significant. reputational and other risks to
the Bank.

০ The customer as.defined by BFIU.

2. The customer identification’ process applies naturally at the outset of the relationship. To

ensure that records remain up-to-date and relevant, there is.a need for the concerned officers. to

undertake regular reviews of existing records. An appropriate: time to do so is when a'transaction
of significance takes place, when customer documentation standards change substantially, or
when there is a material change in the way that the account is operated. However, if an officer
becomes aware at any time that it lacks sufficient information about an existing customer, he.
should take steps to ensure that all relevant information are obtained as quickly as possible.
D.1.10.1 What Constitutes a Person’s Identity.
1. Identity generally. means a set of attributes which uniquely define a natural or legal person. There
are two main constituents of a person’s ideritity, remembering that a person may be any one of a
range of legal persons (an individual, body corporate, partnership, etc).
o the: physical identity (e.g. name, date of birth, TIN/Passport/NID number/Birth
certificate, etc.); and
e the. activity undertaken.
2. Confirmation of a. person’s. address is also useful in determining whether a customer is. resident
in a high-risk country. Knowledge of both residence and nationality may also be necessary, in a non,
112/[Page .

money-laundering context, to avoid breaches of UN or other international/National sanctions to
which Bangladesh is a party. Where a passport:is taken as evidence, the number, date and place of
issue should be:recorded.
3. The other main element ina person’s identity is sufficient: information about: the nature of the
business that the customer expects to undertake, and. any expected or predictable pattern of
transactions. For some business these may be obvious, however, for more complex businesses this
may not be the case. The extent of description required will. depend on the concerned officer’s own,
understanding of the applicant’s business.
4, When. commencing a business. relationship, concerned. officers should consider recording the
purpose and reason. for establishing the business relationship, and the anticipated level and.nature. of
activity to be undertaken. Documentation about the nature of the applicant’s business should also
cover theorigin of funds to be used. during the relationship. For example, funds may be transferred
from.a Bank or ‘the applicant’s employer, or be the proceeds of a. matured insurance Policy, ete.
5. Once account relationship has been established, reasonable steps should be ‘taken ‘by the
concerned officer to ensure that descriptive information is kept up to date as opportunities arise. It
is important to. emphasize that: the customer identification process do not end at the point of
application. The need to confirm and update information about identity, such as changes of address,
and. the extent. of additional KYC information 'to. be collected over time will differ from. sector to
sector and between institutions within any sector. It will also depend on the nature of the product or
service being: offered, and whether personal contact is maintained enabling file notes of discussion
to be:made or whether all contact-with the customer is: remote.
D.1.10.2 Individual Customers (Natural Persons)
1. Where verification of identity is required, the following information should. be obtained. from all
individual. applicants: for opening accounts or other relationships, and should be independently
verified by the concerned officer himself/herself:

o true name and/or:names used}.

০ -parent’s names;

০. date of birth;

© current and permanent address;

০ details of occupation/employment and sources of wealth or income;
2, One or more of the following steps is recommended to verify addresses:

113 [Page .

© ‘provision, of a recent utility bill, tax assessment or Bank: statement containing details
of the address (to. guard against forged copies it is strongly recommended that original
documents are examined);
e checking the NID;
৩০ checking-the telephone directory;
© ‘record of home/office'visit.
The information obtained. should demonstrate that a person of that:name exists. at the address given,
and that the applicant is. that person.
3. The date and place. of birth are important .as identifier 711) support of the name, and are helpful to
assist law enforcement. Although there is no obligation to verify the date of birth, ‘this provides an
additional safeguard. It is also helpful for residence/nationality to be ascertained to assist risk:
assessment procedures and to ensure that the: Bank does not breach UN or other. international
sanctions.
4. Identification of documents, either’ originals or certified copies, should be pre-signed and beara
photograph of the applicant, e.g.: -
i) Current valid passport;
ii) National Identity Card;
111) Birth Registration Certificate; (with a recent valid photo ID)
5. Identification. documents which do: not bear photographs or signatures, or are easy to obtain, are
normally not appropriate as sole eviderice of identity, ০.৪. birth certificate, credit cards, non-
Bangladeshi driving license. Any photocopies of documents showing photographs and signatures
should be plainly legible. Where applicants put forward documents with which the concerned.
officer is unfamiliar, either because of origin, format or language, he must take reasonable steps to
verify that the document is indeed genuine, which may include contacting the rélevant authorities
or obtaining a notarized translation. The concerned officers should.also be aware of the authenticity
of passports:
6. Where there is no face-to-face contact, and photographic :identification would clearly be.
inappropriate, 01706০001০3 to identify and authenticate the customer should ensure that there is.
sufficient evidence, either documentary or electronic, to confirm address and. personal identity: At.
least one additional check should. be undertaken to guard against impersonation. In. the event that
internal procedures require sight of a current passport. or ID. card where there is no face-to-face:
114/Page .

contact, then a certified true copy should be. obtained.
7. There 1s obviously a. wide range of documents which might be: provided as. evidence. of identity.
It is for each. concerned officer to decide the appropriateness of any document iin the light of other
procedures: adopted. However, particular care should be taken in accepting documents which are
easily forged or which can be easily obtained using false identities.
8. In:respect of joint accounts where the surname and/or address of the account holders differ, the
name and address of all account holders, not only the first named, should normally be verified in
accordance with the procedures set out above.
9. Any subsequent change to the customer’s name, address, or employment details of which the
concerned officer becomes. aware should be. recorded as part of the “Know Your Customer”
process. Generally this would be undertaken, as part of good business practice and due diligence but
also serves for money: laundering prevention.
10. File copies of supporting evidence should be. retained. Where this is not: possible, the relevant
details should be recorded. on the applicant's file. In case of one-off transactions, the details should
be recorded in a manner which allows cross reference to transaction records. Such, institutions may
find it cofivetient. to record identification details on .a separate form. to be retained with copies of
any ‘supporting material obtained.
11. An introduction from, a respected customer personally known to the management, or from a
trusted. member of staff, may assist the verification procedure but does not replace the need for
verification of address: as set out above. Details of the introduction should be recorded on the
customer's file. However, personal, introductions without. full verification should not. become the
norm, and. directors/senior managers must not require or request staff to breach account opening
procedures as.a favor'to an.applicant.
D.1.10.3 Persons without Standard Identification Documentation
Most people need to make ‘use ০৫ the financial system at some -point in their lives. It is important,
therefore, that the socially or financially disadvantaged such as the farmers, elderly, the disabled,
students and minors should not be precluded from obtaining financial services just because they do
not possess evidence of identity or address where: they cannot reasonably be expected to do so. In
these circumstances, ৪ common sense approach and. some flexibility without compromising
sufficiently rigorous. anti-money. laundering procedures is recommended. Internal procedures must:
115 |Page .

allow for this, and must provide appropriate advice to the concerned officer on how identity can. be

confirmed in these exceptional circumstances. The. important point.is ‘that a person's identity’ can be

verified from.an original or certified copy of another document, preferably one with a-photograph.

D.1.10.4 Joint Accounts

In case of joint accounts, complete separate KYC/ CDD Form for each of the account holders has

to be filled up. Further, also carry out other CDD measures (as applicable) on all of the joint

account holders, as if-each of them is iridividual customer of the Bank.

D.1.10.5 Partnerships and Unincorporated Businesses:

e In the case. of partnerships and other unincorporated businesses whose parthers/directors are not
known to the Bank, the identity. of all the partners or equivalent should. be ‘verified in line with.
the requirements for personal customers. Where. a. formal, partnership. agreement exists, a.
mandatee from the partnership authorizing the opening of an account and. conferring authority
on those who will operate it should be obtained.

e Evidence of the trading address of the business or partnership should be obtained and a. copy of
the latest report and accounts (audited where applicable) should also be obtained.

০ An explanation of the nature of the business or partnership should be ascertained (but not
necessarily verified from a‘partnership deed) to ensure that it has a legitimate. purpose.

D.1.10.6 Corporate Bodies and other Entities (Legal Persons)

Because of the difficulties of identifying beneficial ownership, and. the possible complexity of

organization and. structures, corporate. entities. and trusts are the most likely vehicles to be used for

money’ laundering, particularly when a legitimate trading company is. involved. Particular care
should be ‘taken to verify the legal existence of the applicant and. to ensure that any person
purporting to act on behalf of the applicant, is authorized to, do so. The principal requirement. is to
look behind a corporate entity to identify. those who have ultimate control over'the business and the

company’s. assets, with particular attention being, paid to any shareholders or, others who exercise a

significant influence over the affairs of the company. Enquiries should be made to confirm that the

company exists fora.legitimate trading or economic purpose, and that it is not merely a “brass-plate
company” where the controlling principals cannot be identified.

The following documents: should normally be obtained. from companies:
© Certified true copy of Certificate of Incorporation or equivalent, details of the registered

office, and place of business;

০ Certified true copy of the Memorandum and Articles of Association, or by-laws of the
client.

০ Copy of the Board.resolution to open the account relationship and the empowering authority
for those who will operate any‘accounts;

০ Explanation of the nature of the applicant's business, the reason for the relationship being
established, an indication of the expected turnover, the source of funds, and a copy of the
last available financial statements where appropriate;.

° Satisfactory evidence of the identity. of each. of the principal, beneficial owners being any
‘person ‘holding 20% interest or more or with principal control over the company’s assets
and any person. (or persons) on whose instructions the. signatories on the account aré to act
or may act ‘where such, persons are not full time employees, officers or directors of the
company;

০ Satisfactory evidence of the identity of the account signatories, details of their relationship
with the company and if they are not employees an explanation of the relationship.
Subsequent changes 00 signatories must be verified;

৩০ ~©Copies of the list/register of directors.

D.1.10.7 Accounts of NGO/ NPO/ Trust/ Society/ Club/ Association/ Charitable/ Religious

Organizations:

০ The account should be opened in the name of relevant. NGO/NPO/Trust/ Society/ Club/
Association/ Charitable/ Religious Organizations (as the case may be), as per title given in the
constituent documents of;the entity.

০ The individuals who are authorized ‘to operate these accounts and members of, their governing
body/ Management Committee/ Board of Trustees should also be subject. to EDD. Branches
should ensure. that these: persons: are ‘not affiliated. with any proscribed/ banned. individual/
‘group/ entity, whether under the same name or different names.

০ In case of advertisements through newspapers or any other media, especially when Bank.
account number is mentioned ‘for donations, branches should ensure that the title of the account
is the same as. that of the entity solicitirig/ asking for donations. In case of any difference,
immediate caution, should be marked on such. accounts, and the matter should be escalated to
Chief Compliance Officer & CAMLCO 11 order to consider the case for filing of STR and/or
take other actions as per law.

০ Personal accounts. should not, be allowed to be used for charity purposes/collection of donations.

০ All existing relationships of NGOs/NPOs/Trust/ Society/ Club/ Association/ Charitable/
Religious. Organizations should be reviewed, and monitored. to ensure that these organizations,

their authorized signatories, members of their governing body and the beneficial owners are. not
linked with any proscribed entities and persons, whether under the same name or a different
name. In case of any positive ‘match, branches should. immediately ‘report the same to
CAMLCO & CCC for filing of STR and/or take other actions as per law.

০ Besides above, following steps should be adopted while opening the accounts of NGOs, NPOs,
Trusts/ Societies/ Clubs/ Associations/ Charitable/ Religious Organizations:

০ Obtain Declaration from the Governing Body/ Board of Trustees/ Management Committee/
Sponsors on ultimate control, purpose. and source of funds, etc:

০: Obtain an undertaking from Governing Body/Board. of Trustees/Management Committee
/sponsors to inform the Bank about any change in control or ownership of entity during
operation of the account

© Obtain a Resolution of the Governing Body/ Board of Trustees/ Manageinent Corimittee of the
entity for opening: & operating the Account

০ Obtain.a fresh Resolution of the Governing Body/ Board of Trustees/ Management Committee
of the entity in case. of change in person(s) authorized to operate the-account.

০ To ascertain the physical existence of entity, branches should ০০110000006 physical verifications
of the same, and. document the results thereof by attaching a visit report with Account Opening
Documents.

০ Complete the prescribed EDD Form of the account properly & attach the same with Account.
Opening Documents.

০ Obtain, concurrence from the CAMLCO to open the account. Before approving such accounts,
Respective Branch. should:

v Review all the required documents to ensure that the saine are in liné with
Account Opening Documents checklist.

Y Seek.legal opinion from Bank’s Legal Department from legal perspectives.

/ Upon receipt. of satisfactory response from. the panel lawyer, obtain AML.
clearance from. AML & CFT Division.

D.1.10.8 Government Account:

০ Government account should not, be opened. in personal name of the government-official.

০ The government account, which 15 ‘to be operated by an officer of government, should be
opened only on production of. especial resolution/ authority from the concerned administrative
department duly endorsed by the Ministry of:Finance Government.

118[Page

০. Incase of Autonomous Entities and Armed Forces including their allied offices, 8৪০০০৮10081 be
opened on, the basis of especial resolution/ authority from the: concerned administrative
department or highest executive committee/management committee of that. entity duly endorsed.
by their respective unit of finance.

D.1.10.9 Powers of Attorney / Mandates to Operate Accounts

The authority to deal with assets under a power of attorney constitutes a business relationship and.

therefore, ‘where appropriate, it may be advisable to establish the identities of holders of powers of

attorney, the grantor of the power of attorney and third-party mandates.

D.1.10.10 Dormant Accounts

o ‘For dormant accounts, branches may allow credit/deposit entries. without: requiring activations.
However, debit transactions/ withdrawals shall not be allowed until the account holder requests
for activation and produces an attested. copy of his/her NID, if already not: available, and
branch is satisfied with the KYC/ CDD profile of customer.

o However, in. case of transactions e.g. debits. under the recovery of loans and markup etc. any’
permissible Bank charges, government duties or levies and ‘instruction. issued under any law or'
from the court. will not’be subject to the debit or withdrawal restriction.

D.1.11 Timing and Duration of Verification

০ The best time ‘to undertake ‘verification is prior to entry into the account. relationship.
Verification of identity should, as soon. 33:15 reasonably practicable, be completed before any
transaction is completed.

o However, if it is necessary for sound business reasons. to open. an account or carry out a
significant one-off transaction. before: verification: can be completed, this should be subject to
stringent controls which should ensure that any funds received are not passed to third parties.
Alternatively, ‘a senior member of staff may give appropriate authority.

০ This authority should not be delegated, and should only be done in exceptional circumstances.
Any such decision should be:recorded in writing.

০ Verification, once begun, should normally be pursued either to a satisfactory conclusion or to
the point of refusal. 108 prospective customer does not pursue an application, staff may (or may
not). consider‘that this is in itself suspicious.

119 [Page |

D.1.11.1 Verification of Source of Funds

Branches should ‘collect’.and verify the document supporting source of fiind of the person at the
time of establishing any business relationship: or while conducting CDD. The document could.
include: present. employment identity, letter of introduction, salary certificate, pension book,
financial statement, income tax return, business document or any other document'that. could satisfy
the Bank.

D.1.11.2 Verification of Address

Bratiches should verify the address of the person, at the time of establishing any business
relationship or while.conducting CDD. This. could be done through the physical verification by the
Bank: or by. standard mail or courier service correspondence. The Bank could collect any other
document (recent utility bill mentioning the name and address of the customer) up its satisfaction..
Verification.of the information. obtained must.be based on:reliable and independent. sources: — which
might either be a document. or documents ‘produced by the customer, or electronically by the Bank,
or by a combination of both. Where ‘business is conducted face-to-face, branches should. see
originals of any documents involved in the verification.

D.1.11.3 Completeness and Accuracy:

Bank is required to. be certain about the customer’s identity and underlying purpose of establishing
relationship. with the Bank, and should. collect sufficient information ‘up to its. satisfaction.
“Satisfaction. of the Bank” ‘means. satisfaction of the appropriate authority that is necessary due
diligence has. been conducted ‘considering the risks of ‘the customers in the light of existing
directions.

10:13 an obligation for the Bank to maintain. complete: and. accurate information of its: customer and.
person acting on behalf of a customer. ‘Complete’ refers to combination of all information for
verifying the identity of the person. or entity. For example: name. and detail. address of the person,
profession, source of funds, Passport/National, Identity Card/Birth Registration Certificate/
acceptable ID card with photo, phone/ mobile: number etc. ‘Accurate’ refers to such complete
information that has: been verified for accuracy.

KYC procedures refer knowing a. customer physically ‘and financially. This, means to conduct an
effective KYC, it is essential to accumulate complete and accurate information about the
prospective customer.
120 [Page

The verification procedures establishing the identity of a prospective customer should basically be
the same whatever type of account or service is required. It would be best’ ‘to obtain the
identification documents, from the prospective customer which is the most difficult to obtain
illicitly. No single piece of identification, can be fully guaranteed as genuine, ০1:85 being sufficient
to establish identity, so verification will, generally be a.cumulative process. The overriding, principle
is that every Bank must know who their customers are, and have the necessary documentary
evidences to ‘verify this.

Where the Bank is unable to identify the customer and verify that customer’s identity using
reliable, independent.source documents, data or information, unable to identify the beneficial owner
taking reasonable measures, unable to obtain information on the:purpose arid. intended nature of the
business ‘relationship, BANK. should not-open the account, commence business relations or’perform.
the transaction; or should terminate the business relationship; and should consider making a.
suspicious transactions report in relation to the customer.

D.1.12 Ongoing CDD measures (Review and update)

Bank must take necessary measures to review and update the KYC of the customer after a certain
interval. This :procedure shall have to be conducted in every five (5) years in case of low risk.
customers. Furthermore, this procedure shall have to be conducted in every'year in case of high
risk customers. But, Banks should update the changes in any information. on the KYC. as soon as
Bank‘ gets to be informed. Moreover; BANK shall update: K YC information anytime if there. is any’
particular necessity realized. Depending on the updated information, the risks associated with these
accounts shall have to be assessed. again without any delay.

D.1.13 CDD for Beneficial Owners

Bank should apply CDD obligations for the beneficial owners of the accounts before or during the
course. of establishing a business relationship or conducting occasional transactions. In doing so,
Banks should put in place appropriate measures to indentify beneficial owner. Banks, upon its own.
satisfaction ensure. CDD. of beneficial ownership by collecting information and documents: from.
independent and reliable sources that includes publicly available: information, information. from
customer or information from other reliable sources. Banks should consider following aspects while
identifying beneficial ownership includes: Beneficial owner refers to the natural person(s) who
ultimately owns, controls or influences a customer and/or the ‘natural. person on. whose behalf a.
transaction is being conducted. It also includes those persons who exercise ‘ultimate. effective
control over a legal ‘person or arrangement. Reference to “ultimately owns or controls” and.
12 Page

“ultimate. effective control” refer to situations in which ownership/control is exercised through a
chain of ownership or by means of control other than direct control.

Note: It is required. to conduct-CDD of settler, trustee, protector or any person with similar status. or
any beneficiary or class of beneficiaries who have hold effective control. on ‘trust, in case of
identification of beneficial ownership of a.legal arrangement.

০ Any natural person(s) who ultimately:owns or controls a.customer and/or the natural person.
on whose behalf a transaction.is being conducted;

0 Any person (whether acting alone or together) who has controlling interest. or ownership
interest on a customer who might be legal entity or legal arrangements. Where there is any
doubt identifying controlling interest, the Banks should. consider other means to determine
controlling interest of ownership of a legal entity or atrangements. In addition to that, Bank
should also. consider reasonable measures to verify. the identity of the relevant natural
‘persons who hold any senior‘management position;

o Any person or entity who has. controlling or 20% or above share holding within any legal.
entity.

০ The settler(s), trustee(s), the ‘protector, the beneficiaries or class of beneficiaries, or any
other natural, person who exercises control over the trust.

০ Any person in equivalent or similar position for trust (as mentioned above) should consider
for other types of legal arrangements.

Where, a natural or legal persotis who holds controlling interest, listed on a stock exchange and
subjects to disclosure requirements or majority owned subsidiaries of such listed companies may
exempted from identifying or verifying beneficial ownership requirements.
D.1.14 Simplified Customer Due Diligence:
Bank: may take easier watchful measures: for “Low Risk” accounts that opened for’ “Financial
Inclusion (student account, farmers account)” & other “No Frill Account” purpose.
D.1.15 Enhanced. Due Diligence measures:
Bank must conduct. Enhanced CDD measires, wher necessary, in addition to normal CDD
measures. Bank must conduct Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) under the following circumstances:
1 Individuals or legal entities scored with high risk;
2 Individuals who are identified as politically exposed-persons (PEPs), influential persons (IPs)
and chief executives or top-level officials: of any international organization;
122[Page

ও Transactions identified with unusual in regards to its pattern, volume and complexity which.
have ho apparent economic or lawful purposes;

4 While establishing and maintaining business. relationship and conducting transaction with a.
‘person (including legal representative, financial ‘institution or any other institution) of the:
countries and territories that do not meet international standard in combating money
laundering and terrorism financing (such. as the countries and territories. enlisted. as High -
Risk and Non- Cooperative Jurisdictions. in thé Financial Action Task Forée’s Public
Statement).

Enhanced DD. measures includes-

= Obtaining ‘additional information on the customer (occupation, volume of assets,
information. available through public databases, internet etc.) and updating more regularly
the: identification data.of customer and beneficial owner.

© Obtaining additional information on the intended nature of the business. relationship.

© Obtaining information on the purpose of the account, source of funds or source of wealth of
the customer.

০ Jn applicable ground, obtaining: concurrence from CAMLCO.

‘8 Qbtaining information on the reasons for intended. or performed transactions..

© Obtaining the approval of senior management to commence or continue the business
relationship when applicable.

® Conducting regular monitoring of the business relationship, by. increasing the number and
timing: of controls applied and selecting patterns of transactions that need further
examination.

2 "Making aware the concerned Bank officials about the risk level.of the customer.

D.1.16 Walk-In/ One off Customers

Banks must collect complete and correct information while serving Walk-in customer, i.e. a

customer without having account. Banks should know the sources of ‘fund and motive of'transaction.

while issuing DD/PO. or serving for‘ TT/MT.

Banks have to collect complete and, accurate information of any person other than customer deposit

or withdrawal using on-line facilities. Additionally, in regards to on-line deposits, Banks should

identify sources of funds as well.

While: establishing transaction. up to Tk. 50,000/- by the “Walk-in Customer”, Bank must collect.

applicant/sender and beneficial/ ‘receiver name & address along with applicant/sender’s telephone.

number:
নোটে [Page

While: establishing transaction. above Tk. 50,000/- but below Tk. 500,000/-, Bank must collect
applicant/sender/ depositor/withdrawer photo ID with name & address, telephone number.

While establishing. transaction of Tk. 500,000/ or more “occasional transactions” including: wire
transfer by walk in customer, the-Branch must prepare full-KYC.

D.1.17 Non Face-to-Face Customers

Bank should assess. money’ laundering and terrorist. financing risks ‘while providing service ‘to non
face to face customers. and, shall, develop the. Policy and techniques to mitigate the risks, as well as
will review that time to time. ‘Non face to face customer’ refers to “the customer who opens and.
operates his account by agent.of the Bank or by his own professional representative without: having
physical presence.at the Bank. branch”.

D.1.18 Non-Completion of CDD/EDD:

1. ‘In case of non completion, of CDD. due: to either non cooperation/unwillingness of the
customer or if the collected information/documents are not dependable, i-e., if the identity
cannot be verified to complete CDD, the Bank shall take the following actions:

a) Bank shall not open account of such customer and shall close stich existing’ account,
if needed.
b) Closure of such existing account requires prior approval from higher management
and ‘prior notice to the customer explaining reasons for closing of such account(s).
¢) Branch. will submit such. accounts report to AML & CFT DIVISION 00 a. monthly:
basis
d) Suspicious Activity Report may be submitted for such customers.
D.1.19 CDD Measures For PEP’s/IPs/Chief Executives or top Level Officials of any
International Organization
The Bank needs to identify whether any oftheir customer is a PEPs/IPs/ Chief Executives or top
Level. Officials of any International Organization. Once identified the Bank needs to apply
enhanced CDD measures. Moreover, they need,to perform the following-
(a) The Bank: has adopted the Risk Based Approach to determine whether a. customer or the real
beneficial owner of ai account.is a PEP;
(b) obtain senior managements’ approval and concurrence from CAMLCO before establishing such
business relationship;
(c) take reasonable measures to establish the source of fund of a PEP’s account;
124 | Page

(d):monitor their transactions in a regular basis; and

(9) all provisions of Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 and issued. rules. and regulations by’
Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit (BFIU) under this.act have'to be complied.accordingly
D.1.20 CDD Measures for Close Family Members and Close Associates of PEPs

Bank: need. to identify whether any of their customer. is a family member or close associates of a
PEP, IP or CEO or top level officials of any international organization. Once identified Banks need
to apply enhanced CDD measures. Moreover, they need.to. perform the following-

(a) Bank has to adopt.the Risk Based Approach 10 determine whether a customer or the real.
beneficial owner of an account is a family member or close associates of a. PEP, obtain,
senior managements’ approval and coneurrence from. CAMLCO before establishing ‘such.
businéss.relationship;

(b) take reasonable measures ‘to establish, the source of fund of the account of a family member
or close associates. of a PEP

(c) all provisions of Foreign Exchange Regulation Act, 1947 and issued rules and regulations
by Bangladesh Financial Intelligence Unit (BFIU) under this act have to ‘be complied
accordingly.

D.1.21 Accounts for on boarding of NGOs, NPOs, Trusts, Charitable/ Religious /'Entities

NGOs, NPOs, Trusts, Societies, Welfare/ Charitable/ Religious’ organizations/ Associations, etc.

hold. the peculiar nature of organizational structures/ control/ operational activities, due to. which,

these entities are always viewed as vulnerable to be used. for money laundering / terrorist financing

(ML/TF) activities; and hence, the Banks in terms of BB directives/ industry best. practices are

required to be more careful/ vigilant and exercise exhaustive/ enhanced due diligence measures

while dealing with such organizations/ associations.

D.1.22 Accounts of landlords/Property Owners

০ Obtain, appropriate proof of land holding e.g., Land revenue receipt, or any other acceptable
land holding evidence/ ‘verifiable information (as much.as possible)

০ In addition to above, obtain a self-declaration of customer for source & beneficial ownership of
funds/ account duly approved by Branch Manager.

০ Obtain. additional information. regarding the land holding records of customer, e.g. location,
area, etc., (as much as possible).

০ Further, if the account is classified.as high risk, complete the prescribed EDD Form of the
account.

195 [Page

D.1.23 Accounts of non-income generating persons (e.g. Housewife/ Student/Minor/ Widow)
০ Qbtain Self-declaration of customer for source and beneficial ownership of funds duly approved.
by Branch. Manager.

০ KYC of'the funds providers, i.e., the beneficial owner-has to be completed.
০ Further, if the account is classified as, high:risk; EDD may be prescribed.
D.1.23 Reviewing & updating of KYC Profiles
KYC document is a yardstick, which enables the Bank to have (the most likely) up-to-date
information/ ‘records of the customers. Know Your Customer (KYC) is: not a onetime exercise;
rather it is an ongoing process. Therefore, KYC of all business relations should be conducted,
updated & revised on an.on-going basis by considering the following:

© When & where warranted by the. conduct of the account;

o As & when customer's profile -changes;

© Onperiodic basis as per internal. Policies of the Bank, as well as BFIU.
D.2 KYC & CDD for MFS customers
KYC, Transaction Monitoring, Reporting of STR & SAR, Monitoring of agents and distributors,
NID Verification, and other issues, of Mobile Financing Services Customers have to be ensured in
the light of BFIU Master Circular- 20 and the subsequent circulars ‘that will follow later on (related
to MFS). Along with the full compliance of master circular no 20, the following issues need to be
highlyemphasized..

1. KYC: Mobile Banking Division will follow the instructions of BEIU Master Circular- 20
and the subsequent circular regarding this if any, to ensure proper KYC of the clients. New
‘uniform account opening form. for:individual customers has to be adopted.as per instructions
of BFIU.

2. NID Verification: Mobile Banking Division ‘will continue NID verification for all new' and
existing clients through. Bangladesh.Election Commission portal.

3. Update of Application, Form: Mobile Banking Division will update the My-Cash
application form for Individual Customers in order to comply'the requirements stated. in the
BFIU Master Circular-:20

4. Implementation of any New Service or technology by Mobile Banking Division:

5. In order to comply the requirements stated in the BFIU Master Circular- 20, Mobile
Banking Division, will inform the AML &. CFT Division, before the implementation, of any
new service or technology by MFS in order to verify the risk issues for that particular
service or'technology.

6. Transaction Monitoring: Mobile Banking Division.must ensure Transaction Monitoring.

126 [Page

The nature of this ‘monitoring will depend on ‘the nature ofthe: transactions. Possible areas to
monitor could be:

eo Transaction'type and.number ‘of transactions

o Frequency and changes in amount

o ‘Unusually large amounts.

০. Geographical origin/destination

o Changes in mobile numbers to transfer funds
D.3 KYC & CDD for Agent Banking customers
Agent Banking means providing limited scale. Banking and financial services to: the. underserved
population through engaged agents under a valid agency agreement, rather than.a teller/ cashier. It
is the owner of an outlet who conducts Banking transactions on. behalf of a. Bank. Globally these
retailers 81৩ being increasingly utilized as important: distribution ‘channels for financial inclusion.
Bangladesh Bank has also decided to promote this: complimentary channel to reach to the poor.
segment of the society as well as existing Bank customer with a, range of financial services
specially to: geographically dispersed locations.
D.4 Transaction Monitoring Process
It is a regulatory: obligation ‘to pay special. attention to all complex, unusually large Transactions,
and. all ‘unusual patterns of ‘transactions, which have no apparent. economic: or visible lawful
purpose. The background and ‘purpose of such transactions should, as. far as possible, be examined,
the findings. established in writing, and be available to help the relevant; authorities in, inspection.
and investigation.
Branches are primarily responsible to monitor transactions carried out by customers. As a countet
measure, AML & CFT Division of Bank also monitors customers’ transactions. The following
mechanisms should be followed.to monitor:customer’s accounts/transactions
Bank: will monitor the transactions to identify the “Structuring” according provision. section.
2(fa)(EI) of Money Laundering Prevention. Act;20.12. And also, Bank will follow the BFIU Circular
no-26.
It is also applicable for both foreign currency transactions & electronic transfer.
At the time of monitoring Transaction, consider UNSCRs and the country that: do not, meet the
international, standards in combating Money laundering & Financing of terrorism or any
mentionable limitation.
OO 1T | Page

D.4.1 Transaction Monitoring by Branches

D.4.1.1 All Transaction Analysis Report

Large Transaction, in the customer's Accounts should be, monitored.on the basis of above system.
generated report by applying following: threshold amounts; and. further economic consideration/
justifications. of the same should. be duly enquired, properly recorded, & retained at the respective
branches.

Report 1: Cash transaction report (CTR) — Monthly: Cumulative deposit or withdrawal ina day
in a single account of customer over BDT 10 lakh.

Report 2: Transactions that Breached Customer’s Profile: All Transaction exceeding
Transaction profile of the accounts declared by accountholder.

Report. 3: Exceptional. Movement of Money Transfer: All the ‘high value Transactions i.e.,
transactions above BDT 5.00 Lakh. that were in the form. of account to account transfer, Clearing,
BEFTN, RTGS shall be. analyzed with the KYC, TP, Profession and sources of fund. of the
customer by the respective: 81811006901) daily basis and by the AML & CFT Division on. monthly
Basis.

D.4.1.2, What:is to be considered while reviewing the ‘reports?

While reviewing the transaction monitoring reports the reviewer should. always keep in mind some:
checking, parameters, exceptions of which may trigger suspicion and may need to make effort to
look into the facts in details. Some checking parameters are as follows (not exhaustive):

০ The transaction is not consistent-with the declared profession/business. of. the: customer

০ The type of transaction is of hot commor/regular nature with the customer

a The transaction is showing unusual variation. from. the normal transaction ‘pattern of the:
customer (comparing Statistical History of last one year.)

a The pattern suggests that the customer is structuring transaction to avoid. reporting
requirement (CTR).

এ The geographic location. where the transactiotis :are taking place or from. where these are
being generated have no relevance to customer's business/profession..

o Frequent intercity transactions which are not relevant to the nature of the account.
‘Remittance ‘to various ‘parties in different locations with whom no apparent business
relationship is évident.

s ‘Transactions seem. suspicious having: high activity and low balances in the account; or
having large or rapid movements of funds.

Any deviation of the checking parameters might be considered. intriguing and may require
additional effort to look into details, of the transaction(s). Reviewer may need to obtain justifiable
explanation. from the customer on, such, occasions as well.
D.4.1.3 What'the reviewer should do
In the monitoring report the reviewer should.ensure the following:

৩ ‘The purpose of transaction should be:mentioned as clearly as possible

০ The reviewer should ‘not use vague terms such as ‘business’, 'sales', "inward. remittance’ 'cash.

delivery’, “collection”, “ok”, "called", "known to relationship officer/Branch, "media
business” ete.

০ ‘The explanations should be meaningful. and understandable to any reviewer/auditor

০ Contact'the customer (if:required) to ascertain the actual reason.

০৩ Check if'the explanation provided by customer matches with the customer profile.
D.4.1.4 Remaining. Vigilant on Transaction Monitoring
In addition to the exception reports based ‘monitoring ‘process, staffs of the Bank who have
customer or account contact have a responsibility to be vigilant throughout the course of carrying
out their duties, and.:to report any activity they may observe or become aware of. that in their
judgment, they deem to be potentially suspicious or inconsistent with their general knowledge ০৫
customer should report the same: One of the key areas where the Banks staffs should be especially
vigilant. is the point of transaction. Particular ‘attention should be paid. to cash, pay orders, Inter
D.4.1.5 KYC/AML Analysis Reports
account fund transfer, Clearing cheque, inward remittances or collection activity, early client
redemption or unexpected. pre-payment of loan products. Branches are required to review the
deviations/ breaches in customer’s Annual Account Turnover identified through system generated.
report (This report should be generated on monthly basis. Further to this effect, update/ revise KYC
profiles of the same by obtaining and documenting the plausible justifications/ reasons thereof.
D.4.1.6 Back-end Monitoring by AML & CFT Division.
AML & CFT Division shall analyze CTR arid threshold based transactions to raise STR/SAR on
behalf of Bank in additional, diligence basis.
D.4.1.7 Adverse Media Report:
Branches/Centralized Operation of Account: Opening shall go through the adverse: news regarding
individuals and entities in, the daily Newspapers or in electronic Media and will check up the
records of branches whether any: mentioned persons/entities in the adverse media has been
1909 [Page

maintaining any account with our branches or not. .If any such person/entity is found, it should. be
immediately reported to AML & CFT Division and branches shall also keep this news in a separate
file with paper cutting/source. AML. & CET Division with, co-operation of branch will investigate
the issue and. take necessary steps for the account. Even AML & CFT Division should also go
through the adverse’news and if found anything, this should be forwarded to all the branches.
D.4.2 Cash Transaction Report Procedure
Most of the Banks extracts CTR qualified transaction but. every branch will review, analyze and.
preserve the monthly cash transaction report. If the branch does not have any such transaction, it
should report it to the AML & CFT Division as ‘There is no reportable CTR’. Simultaneously,
branches need to identify whether there. is any suspicious transaction reviewing the cash
transactions. If any suspicious transaction. is found, the branch Will submit it as ‘Suspicious.
Transaction Report” to the AML & CFT Division. If-no such transaction. is: identified, it needs to
inform to the AML & CFT Division as “No suspicious transaction has been found’ while. reporting
the CTR. Besides, every branch needs'to preserve its CTR analysis.records in its own custody.
The AML & CFT Division needs to prepare'the accumulated CTR received for its all branches. The
AML & CFT Division must ensure the acctracy and timeliness while:reporting to BEIU. Moreover
it has to review all the cash transactions from the branches above the ‘threshold and search for any
suspicious transaction. If any suspicious transaction, is found, the branch will submit it as
‘Suspicious Transaction Report’ to the BFIU. AML. & CFT Division has to inform BFIU through.
the message boatd.of goaAML web in case of no transaction is found to be reported-as CTR.
D.5 Detection and Reporting of Suspicious Transactions
D.5.1 Statutory Obligation for Reporting of Suspicious Transactions
AS per section 25(1)(Gha) of the Money Laundering Prevention Act-2012. including amendments in,
2015 obligates us to make a report to Bangladesh Financial Intelligence. Unit (BFIU) where a
suspicion arises that a money laundering offence has been or is being committed.
Once employees. have reported their suspicions to the appropriate person in accordance with the
proper internal reporting procedure, they have fully satisfied their:statutory obligations.
D.5.2 Identification of STR/SAR
Identification of STR/SAR may be started. identifying unusual. transaction. and activity. Such
unusual transaction may be unusual in terms of complexity of transaction, nature of transaction,
volume of transaction, time of transaction etc. Generally the: detection of something unusual.may be
sourced as follows:

০ Comiparing the KYC ‘profile, if any inconsistency is found. and there is no reasonable

explanation;

০ .By monitoring customer transactions;

80 [Page

০ By using'red flag indicator.
০ By analyzing the Non-performing loan & suit file accounts to identify. any association with.
money laundering/Hundi/fake documents, submitted by the customers/ fraud-forgery, if any.
A. transaction which appears unusual is not necessarily suspicious. Even customers with a stable
and predictable transactions profile:will have periodic transactions that are unusual for them. So the
unusual is, if the first instance, only a basis for further‘enquiry, which may in tutn require judgment
as to whether it is suspicious. A transaction or activity may not be suspicious at the time, but if
suspicions are raised later, an obligation’to report'then arises.
All suspicions reported, to. the AML & CFT Division shall be documented, or recorded.
electronically. The report. should include full details of the customer who is the subject of, concern
and. as full a statement as ‘possible of the information giving rises to the suspicion. All internal
enquiries :made in :relation. to the: report. should also. be documented. This information may be
required to supplement the ‘initial report or as evidence of good practice and best endeavors if, at
some future date, there’is an investigation and the suspicions are confirmed or'disproved.
The following chart shows the graphical presentation of identification of STR/SAR-
Normal / a Information provided in AOF
Expected Comparing »| Transaction Profile
P নি ‘KYC Profile
_ Transaction | Other relevant documents:
y Consistent পন SN
ড় . “ Normal/
< Findings ">—>| Expected |
7 \. Transaction
Inconsisten ||
/ । Unusual |
. Transaction Y,
As discussed above, the identification of STR/SAR. may be sourced from unusual transaction. or
activity. In case of-reporting of STR/SAR, Bank should conduct'the following 3 stages:
০ ‘Jdentification:
This stage is very vital for STR/SAR. reporting. Depending on size, need and complexity of Barks
monitoring of unusual trafsactions may be ৪0001018060, -manually or both to detect unusual
transactions or activities; Monitoring mechanisms should be ‘more rigorous in high-risk areas of a.
181 [Page

Bank: and supported by adequate information. systems to alert management and other appropriate
staffs of unusual /suspicious activity. Training of staff in the identification of unusual /suspicious
activity should always be an ongoing activity.
০ Evaluation:
This ‘part must be in place at branch level and’within AML & CFT Division. After identification of
STR/SAR at branch level, BAMLCO should evaluate the: transaction/activity to identify suspicion
by interviewing the customer or through any other means. If BAMLCO is not satisfied, he should.
forward the report to AML & CFT Division.Department. After receiving report from branch, AML:
& CFT Division should check the sufficiency of the required. documents .and checking whether :t:
report previously or not. Every stages of evaluation (whether reported to BFIU or-not), branch and.
AML &.CFT Division should keep records with proper manner.
০ ‘Disclosure:
Not suspicious,
‘Detect unusual রর
transaction/activity বৃ Evaluate by Lee Findings . Close:with proper
BAMLCO 7 7 records
Suspicious
Arrange proper’
documents and:Sent
to AML & CFT
Division
Check the sufficiency of
documents by AML &
CFT Division.
Reportito BFIU
‘through goAML
This is the final stage and. Bank shall submit STRs/SARs to BFIU if iit still looks suspicious.
D.6 AML & CFT Division’s Obligations. Regarding Self-Assessment and Independent Testing
Procedure
Based on the received branch evaluation. reports ‘from ‘the branches and submitted inspection/audit
reports. by the Internal, Audit. Department, the AML & CFT Division shall prepare a evaluation.
132[Page

report on the inspected branches on a.half yearly basis. In that report, the following topics, among
others, mist be included:

(a) Total number of branch and number of self assessment report received from the branches;

(b) The number of branches inspected/audited by the ICCD at the time of reporting and the:
status of the branches (branch. wise score/rating);

(c). Same kinds of irregularities that.have been seen in maximum number of branches according:
to the received self assessment report and. measures taken by the AML, & CFT Division to
prevent those-irregularities;

(d) The general and special irregularities mentioned in the report submitted by the ICCD and.
the measures taken by the AML & CFT Division to prevent those irregularities; and

(e) Measures to improve the ratings by ensuring the compliance activities of the branches that
are:rated as ‘unsatisfactory’ ‘and ‘marginal’;

D.7 Record-Keeping Procedure

D.7.1 Customer Information

In relation to the evidence of a,customer’s identity, Banks must keep a copy of or the references to,
the evidence of the customer’s identity obtained during the application of CDD measures. Where a.
Bank has received a confirmation. of identity certificate, this certificate will in. practice be the
evidence of identity that must be.kept. A Bank may often hold additional information in respect of
a customer obtained for the purposes of enhanced.customer due-diligence or ongoing monitoring.
Records of identification, evidence must. be kept for a period of at least five ‘years after the
relationship with. the customer has ended. The date when the relationship with the customer ends is
the date:

© an occasional transaction, or the last in a.series of linked transactions, is carried out;

০ ‘the business‘relationship ended, 1.e. the closing of the account-or accounts.

D.7.2 Transactions

All transactions carried out on behalf of or with a customer in the:course of relevant’ business must:
be recorded within the Bank’s records. Transaction records: in, support of entries in the accounts, in
whatever form. they are used, e.g. credit/debit slips, cheques should. be: maintained in a form from.
which a satisfactory audit trail may be compiled where: necessary, and. which may. establish a
financial profile of any ‘suspect account or customer. Records of all transactions relating to a
customer must be retained for a period of five years from the date: on which the. transaction is
completed.

D.7.3 Internal.and External Reports
133 [Page

Bank-must make and retain:

০ records of actions taken under the internal and external. reporting requirements; and.

০ when. the nominated officer has considered information or other material concerning’
possible money laundering but has not made a report to BFIU,.a record of the other material
that: was considered.

In. addition, copies of any STRs made to the BFIU should be retained in the branch and AML. &
CFT Division until. further notice given by BFIU. Records of all internal and external ‘reports
should be retained for five years from, the date the report was made.

184 [Page

Module E: Sanctions, Anti-Bribery and Corruption.
E.1 Sanctions
The UN. Security Council. imposes sanctions to maintain or restore international peace and
security. The Office. of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC), an agency of the United States
Department of the Treasury, administers. and enforces. economic and. trade sanctions against:
targeted countries, entities and. individuals based on US foreign policy. There are also sanctions
imposed by EU, UK, Australia etc. to attain country-specific objectives.
Sanctions are targeted multiple purposes, take different forms, and are: generally regarded as. an.
alternative to war. Sanctions commonly’ target addressing the challenges of terrorism, violation
ofhuman.rights, nuclear proliferation, destabilize regimes, military conflicts etc. Curtailing trades
orforeign aids, restricting travels, freezing: assets, and denying access to financial institutions are
common activities executed as part of economic sanction measures. There are- ample evidences
thatthese. sanctions produce significant economic impacts. Of the different sectors, financial. and,
banking is the most. vulnerable to risks associated. with sanctions. In recent time, violation of
sanctions (especially OFAC) resulted in serious financial and business losses for the financial
companies.
UN sanctions lists. are a crucial tool in ‘maintaining international peace and security. These
sanctions are diplomatic. decisions ‘enforced by the United Nations member, states against: :states,
entities, or individuals suspected of engaging in illegal activities that might harm. national. security
interests, peace, and international law. For businesses, complying with UN regulations is essential.
to avoid legal measures and protect themselves from potential risks. In this article, we explore the
different types of UN sanctions, countries on the UN financial, sanctions list, and other sanctions.
lists such as the US Consolidated Sanctions List, OFAC. Sanctions List, HM Treasury Sanctions
List, and UK. Sanctions etc.
E.1.1 Economic Sanctions
Economic: sanctions are commercial and financial penalties applied by states or institutions against
states, groups, or individuals. Economic sanctions are a form of coercion that attempts to get an
actor to change its behavior through disruption in economic exchange. Sanctions can be intended to
compel (an ‘attempt to change an actor's behavior) or deterrence (an. attempt: to stop.an actor from.
certain actions).
185 [Page

Sanctions can target an entire country or they can be more narrowly targeted at individuals or
groups; this latter form of sanctions, are sometimes called “smart sanctions" Prominent forms of
economic. sanctions. include trade barriers, asset freezes, travel bans, arms embargoes, and
restrictions on financial transactions.
E.1.2 Various Types of Sanctions
Sanctions may be imposed. by multilateral organization, regional organization or even by’a single
jurisdiction. Based on the imposer of sanction it can be three types, like-

দ Multilateral Sanction i.e UN Sanctions

০ Regional Sanction i.e EU Sanctions

® Unilateral Sanction:i.e OFAC Sarictions
E.1.2.1 UN Sanctions
UN sanctions are a crucial tool used by the United Nations member states: to maintain international
peace: and security., These ‘sanctions are diplomatic decisions enforced. against states, entities, or-
individuals suspected of engaging in illegal activities that might harm national security interests,
peace, and international law. They are often used.as.a non-military approach to address threats to:
international peace and security, ‘with the aim of encouraging the subject of the sanction to change
their behavior or to constrain their ability to carry. out harmful activities.
International sanctions typically involve the imposition of special restrictions on, cultural,
economic, trading, and diplomatic relationships with a particular country, designated. individual, or
organization. They may involve: freezing assets, travel bans, and trade prohibitions on certain
economic sectors, atnong other measures.
The impact of UN sanctions on businesses can be significant. It is essential for businesses to be
aware of the sanctions in place arid. to. detect whether their clients are subject to any sanctions.
Failure to comply with AML regulations and to take the necessary steps to comply with sanctions
may result-in legal measures such as criminal and civil penalties, as well ‘as reputational damage.
The Security Council, can take action to maintain or restore international peace and security under
Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter. Sanctions measures, under Article 41, encompass a.
broad. range of enforcement options that do not involve the use of armed. force. Since 1966, the.
Security Council has established 31 sanctions regimes, in. Southern, Rhodesia, South Africa, the
Former Yugoslavia (2), Haiti (2), Angola; Liberia (3), Eritrea/Ethiopia, Rwanda, Sierra. Leone, Cote
d’Ivoire, Iran, Somalia/Eritrea, ISIL (Da’esh) and Al-Qaida, Iraq (2), DRC, Sudan, Lebanon,
DPRK, Libya (2), the Taliban, Guinea-Bissau, CAR, Yemen, South Sudan and.Mali.

136|Page |

Security Council sanctions have taken a number of different forms, in pursuit of a variety: of goals.
The measures have ranged from comprehensive economic and trade ‘sanctions to more: targeted.
measures such as arms embargoes, travel bans, and. financial or commodity ‘restrictions. The
Security Council has applied. sanctions to support peaceful transitions, deter non-constitutional,
changes, constrain, terrorism, protect:human rights and. promote non-proliferation.
Today, there are 1:5 ongoing sanctions regimes which focus on supporting political settlement of
conflicts, nuclear non-proliferation, and counter-terrorism. Each regime is administered by a
sanctions. committee chaired by a.non-permanent member of the Security Council.
UN Sanctioned Countries:

Central African Republic Democratic: Republic of Congo.

Eritrea Guinea-Bissau.

Lebanon Libya

Mali North Korea

Sudan Yemen
UN Sanctioned Organizations: Al Qaeda, ISIL and Taliban
As of 3 April 2023, there were over 256 individuals and entities listed in the UN Security Council
Consolidated list.
E.1.2.2 EU Sanctions
Restrictive measures, or sanctions, are one of ‘the EU's tools to promote the objectives of the
Common. Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP).. These include safe-guarding the EU's values, its
fundamental-interests and security; consolidating and supporting democracy, the-rule of law, human.
rights and the principles of international law; preserving peace; preventing conflicts and.
strengthening international security.
EU sanctions do not target: a country or population, but are always targeted at specific policies or
activities, the. means to conduct them and those responsible for them. Moreover, the EU makes
every effort to minimize adverse consequences for. the civilian population. or for non-sanctioned.

137(Page

activities or persons. They always form part of a wider, comprehensive policy approach involving
political dialogue and complementary efforts. They are not punitive:
Restrictive rheasures imposed by the EU may tafget governments of third countries, or non-state:
entities (e.g. companies) and :individuals (such as terrorist groups and terrorists). 1701 3 ‘majority of
sanctions regimes, measures are targeted at individuals and entities and consist of asset freezes and,
travel. bans. The EU can also adopt sectoral measures, such as. economic and financial measures
(e.g. import. and export restrictions, restrictions on banking: services) or arms embargoes
(prohibition on exporting. goods set out in the EU's common-military list).
In. addition. to complying with. UN sanctions, the EU may reinforce UN sanctions by applying
stricter and additional ‘measures (e.g. vis-a-vis DPRK). Furthermore, the EU may also decide to
impose fully autonomous sanctions: regimes (e.g. vis-a-vis Syria, Venezuela, Ukraine, Russia).
Since February. 2022, over 1500:new individuals and entities came under EU sanctions.
E.1.2.3 OFAC Sanctions
The US government, like most others, imposes economic and trade. sanctions. in pursuit: of. its
foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign countries, regimes, terrorists,
international narcotics traffickers, those engaged in. activities. :relating to the proliferation of
weapons of mass destruction (WMD) and those who pose: other threats to US national security or
economy. The United States has imposed. two-thirds of the world's sanctions since the 1990s.
‘Numerous American. unilateral sanctions against. various countries around the world have been
criticized by different commentators. It has imposed economic sanctions on more-than 20. countries
since 1998.
Types of sanctions imposed by the United States
e bans on arms-related exports,
০ controls over dual-usetechnology exports,
০ restrictions on economic assistance, and
¢ financial restrictions suchas:
6 requiring the United States to oppose loans by ‘the World Bank. and other
initernational financial institutions,
o diplomatic immunity waived, to allow families of terrorism ‘victims. to file for civil
damages in U.S. courts,
o tax. credits for companies and individuals denied, for income earned in listed.
countries,
188 [Page

6 duty-free goods exemption suspended for imports :from those countries,
o authority to prohibit U.S. citizens from engaging in financial transactions with ‘the
government on. the list, except by license from the U.S. government, and
o prohibition of U.S. Defense Department contracts. above ’.$100,000 with, companies
controlled by countries on the list.
e Visa desigiations that prevent from entering the U.S.

The Office of Foreign. Assets Control. (OFAC) is a financial intelligence and enforcement agency
of the U.S. Treasury Department. It administers and enforces. economic and. trade sanctions in.
support of U.S. national. security and foreign policy objectives. Under Presidential national.
emergency powers, OFAC carries ০৮013 activities against foreign states as well as a variety of
other organizations and individuals, like terrorist groups, deemed. to be a threat to U.S. national
security.
The Office of Foreign. Assets Control (OFAC) of the US Department of the Treasury acts under
Presidential natiorial emergency powers, as well as the authority granted. to it by specific.
legislation, basically ‘to impose: controls om transactions and freeze assets. under US jurisdiction.
OFAC administers and enforces these sanctions. Many of these sanctions are based on UNSC
resolutions: (binding on all countries) and other international mandates. Implementation, of these
sanctions: also involves closé coopération of the US with other allied governments. The
organization. is also responsible. for administering the specially designated. nationals (SDN) List.
The SDN list: is a ‘publication of OFAC which lists individuals and organizations with whom. US
citizens and permanent-residents are prohibited from transacting and doing business. This SDN list
differs: from the list maintained pursuant to Section 314(a) of the USA RATRIOT Act, which.
contains information regarding individuals and organizations engaged. in terrorist or money’
laundering activities.
Sometimes described as one of the "most powerful yet unknown" government agencies, OFAC was
founded. in 1950 and ‘has. the power to. levy significant penalties against entities ‘that. defy its
directives, including, imposing fines, freezing assets, and barring parties from operating in the
United. States. In 2014, OFAC reached a record $963 million settlement-with the French bank BNP
Paribas, which was a portion. of an.$8.9 billion penalty imposed in relation to the case. as.a whole.
As of May 2023, USA had ‘sanction in place against more than 3600 individuals, entities, vessels
and aircrafts, according to Castellum.AI-a compliance screening company that ‘maintain counts. In
the context of Russia- Ukraine war, over.1300 entities, individuals etc. came under OFAC sanction.
E.1.2.4. Other Sanctions:
189 [Page

Several individual countries have sanction compliance related regulations that can be imposed. on
foreign countries, entries, or persons. For example, the Sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering
Act 2018 allows the UK government. to impose sanctions on.a foreign country, entity,or individual
for various reasons, such as human rights abuses, economic crime, terrorist.activities,or violations of
international law. Autonomous Sanctions Act 2011 allows the Australian, government to impose:
sanctions:programs on a foreign country to take it under satictioned jurisdictions, also on entities or
individuals for various. reasons, ‘such as human rights abuses, terrorist activities, or violations of
international law:

E.1.2.5: Domestic Sanction

For the purpose of attaining the objective of the Anti-Terrorism Act, 2009, the government can
ban/proscribe any individual/entity involved in terrorism activity. Under the provision of the said.
Act, the government, till the date, has proscribed the following 09 organizations and listed. into the
schedule of terrorist organizations:

Proscription.
রর
সে সে

E.1.3 Impact-of Sanctions:

In. terms of implications ‘and enforcement: approaches, UN and OFAC sanctions are particularly
prominent and. different..As member countries UN sanctions are-bindings to the member states,. and.
are enforced through. government entities. OFAC: economic. sanctions may not be formal or explicit
obligation. to the. global economies, however, are complied with in most instances to avoidbusiness.
and reputation risks. OFAC's'sanctions programs have a global reach due to the influenceof the USA.
financial system and the role of the USD in international transactions. In reality, financial
institutions and businesses must: comply with OFAC: regulations, and ‘violations can. result in.
substantial penalties and.legal consequences.

140 | Page

Economic sanctions affect international trade by creating abstractions, relocation of sourcing and
destinations, and risks and costs, of transportations that have severe economic impacts. Suppose,
trades in. food and fertilizer are getting affected due to, Russia-Ukraine war. and the associated.
sanctions, and. food supply related obstacles might harm. global, food security. Trade in. crude: oil,
and petroleum, products 13 more complicated. But for countries with limited capacity and few
resources, ignoring the problem could Have severe économic consequences. In the new geopolitical.
world with more sanctions and export controls, the trading environment inevitably becomes more:
expensive and legalistic. ‘To continue to trade in support. of their economic development, emerging’
market: economies are confronting true challenges.

As a member state, Bangladesh ‘is required to comply with economic sanctions on countries,
organizations and ‘individuals. imposed by the UN. Like other jurisdictions, Bangladesh is: required.
to comply with economic sanction on ‘countries, organizations and individuals imposed by the UN
Security Council under Chapter VII of UN Charter. Other forms of economic sanctions (OEAC,
EU, UK Australia etc.) from an individual country or country-groups are: not. legal. or formal.
obligation, of an economy like Bangladesh, however, it does not afford to deny these
comprehensively being part. of this interdependent and globalized business environment of the
globe. Bangladesh.has notbeen. subjected to comprehensive. USA sanctions, but specific individuals
and entities. have been. targeted under OFAC sanction programs. Currently; seven, (7) entities and
seven (7) individuals are in the OFAC sanction list from Bangladesh. ‘The significant impact of
economic sanctions andespecially by UN.and OFAC sanctions cannot’be denied with their spillover
effects on the économy.

Bangladesh attain remarkable development in terms of economic growth, ‘trade: and business
development, and social development. indicators. However, this progression might be stumbled if
any sanction from the UN, OFAC or some other unilateral sanctions imposed upon an. individual. or
entity in Bangladesh, or violation by any bank in Bangladesh. As a participating. country in, global.
trade and. finance, Bangladesh may be affected. Sanctions may create a spillover effects on the
country's economy. Financial and banking ‘sector may’ be affected by sanctions as. secondary actor
and/or may be implicated as the designated individuals and entities ‘may have ‘financial, transactions.
with. these entities. Moreover, the sanctions (especially OFAC) can afféct the reputation of
Bangladesh, as: a. business: destination, as investors and. companies may hesitate to dobusiness with
Bangladesh for fear of violatirig the sanctions. The sanctions can also undermine thecountry's efforts
to attract foreign. investment and diversify its export: sector. Consequently, these sanctions -are
boosting financial institutions’ operational, costs, losing prevailing customers and impacting:
customers’ overall satisfaction. Recently, in the wake of Russia-Ukraine war, OFAC has imposed.
AT [Page

sanctions on various Russian individuals and. institutions and Bangladeshi banks. arefacing various
obstacles in facilitating cross-border trade transactions.

E.1.4 Regulatory Approach. to Sanctions:

BFIU primary mandate. is to prevent money laundering, terrorist financing, proliferation financing
of weapons of mass destruction and other ‘illicit financial activities; and BEIU plays the central. role
in ensuring compliance with UN sanctions and domestic-proscription and enlistment.

Banks and financial institutions are amongst the key actor in sanction. implementation, compliance
and. related reporting. In the process of implementing UNSCRs, banks are required to maintain and
update the listed individuals and entities in electronic form; and to check. at the website. of United
Nations. (http://www.un.org/sc/committees/index.shtm) for updated list. BFIU offered, instructions
to implement Local Sanction List and United. Nations Security Council Resolutions. According to
section 10 of BFIU' Circular-26 (dated 16/06/2020), banks must implement. UNSCRs to. prevent
financing terrorism and weapons of’ mass destruction proliferation, and must establisha process
approved by their Board. of Directors‘to prevent arid identify transactions.related to these issues.
BFIU arranged workshops and several, meeting with different banks for providing general and
technological support in collaboration with ‘successfully implemented banks. Instructions on bank.
officials’ roles and responsibilities should be: issued,, reviewed periodically, and ensure: compliance
with instructions from the BFIU. Banks must promptly report any news on. financing terrorism or
weapons of mass destruction to the BFIU.

BFIU monitors ‘the compliance of banks with sanctions regulations in.a regular‘interval. It condtcts
periodic inspections and assessments to ensure that. the necessary policies, procedures, and systems
are in place to effectively implement sanctions measures. It also provides guidance, training, and.
capacity-building initiatives to financial institutions, regulators, and other stakeholders to enhance
their understanding of sanctions regulations. This helps in promoting a culture ofcompliance and
effective implementation. of sanctions measures: It.is important to note that BEIU'smonitoring and
supervising mechanism is carried out in collaboration ‘with other relevant authorities, such as the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, regulatory bodies, and law enforcement agencies. This multi-agency
approach ensures coordinated. efforts in implementing and enforcingsanctions in Bangladesh.

E.1.5 Compliance with Sanctions and Minimizing Risks

Risks in sanctions compliance are potential threats or vulnerabilities that, if ignored, or not properly
handled, can lead to violations of sanctions and negatively affect an organization’s reputation and
business. FATF updated document (2023) recommended. (as part of combating money. laundering
and financiering: of terrorism & proliferation) for taking care of sanction measures. with the sub-
182 | Page

titles ‘Targeted financial sanctions related. to: terrorism and. terrorist financing’ and “Targeted.
fitiancial sanctions related to proliferation’ 175 ag required by the UN Security Council.
With the possibility of severe financial fines and reputational:risk, no one wishes to be discoveredto
have commercial links to'a sanctioned firm. To ensure compliance with sanctions, organizationsmust
adopt strategies that facilitate due diligence, risk management, and ongoing monitoring. Key
elements:of the Sanction. Risk Compliance Strategies may be summarized as follows:
Sanction Risk Compliance Framework |
Core Elements
Risk. Assessment Sanction Policy, Program Know Your
and Procedures Transactions
Know Your
Customer Sanction Screening Training/Awareness
Diligence
Supportive Elements.
Supportive Internal Third Party Due Diligence Maintaining Records
Control
Sanction Officer Regular Auditing Compliance Culture
Technology Solutions Consolidation of Sanction with AML
Senior management ensures that:its compliance unit is:delegated sufficient authority and autonomyto
deploy its policies and. procedures in a manner that effectively controls the organization’s sanction
risk. Conducting'a risk assessment is the first step towards compliance with sanctions. Anentity must
evaluate their business operations and assess. the potential risks associated with their activities,
including their customers, and. partners. KYC is essential compliance strategies that involve
verifying the identity of customers and. ‘must ensure that they are not doing business with
individuals or entities that are sanctioned or réstricted. Sanction Screening involves screening
customers, suppliers, and transactions against various sanction. lists. EDD is required to. conduct.a
more detailed, investigation of high-risk customers or transactions. For ensuring sanction
compliance, entities must provide regular training and awareness programs to their employees to
ensure’ they understand. the importance. of sanction compliance and their role in implémenting it.
143 [Page

Moreover, it is crucial to implement effective monitoring systems to identify and. prevent real-time:
prohibited transactions.
E.2.3. Sanctions Screening:
Sanctions Screening is an Anti-Money Laundering (AML) and. Counter-Terrorist. Financing (CTF)
control used to. detect, prevent, and disrupt financial crime. Regulated businesses must conduct.
sanctions risk screening as a. mandatory practice for effective sanctions compliance. This step is a
crucial component of the Know Your Customer (KYC) process, which, ensures thorough due
diligence and risk mitigation. Banks. must identify accounts of transactions held by. listed or
proscribed individuals or entities, review them when necessary; and retain records related to false
positives. For better implementation, banks are instructed. to use automated screening mechanism,
either developed byown IT professionals domestically or by international vendors. Ass the reporting
organization, banks need to run regular check on the given parameters,. including’ transactional
review, to. ‘verify, and in case of a. match found shall immediately stop payment or transaction of
funds, financial assets or economic resources: In such a situation, banks are required to report to the
BFIU' withinthe following working day with full particulars.
E.2 Anti-Bribery and Corruption
Bribery and corruption are illegal and. unethical practices that involve the exchange of money, gifts,
or other favors: in exchange for special treatment or favors. Bribery involves giving or receiving
something of value to influence a person’s actions or decisions, often in violation of the law or
ethical standards. Corruption. involves using power or authority for ‘personal gain, often. through
illegal ০৮৮1০001081 means.
Bribery’ and. corruption are widespread problems that can have serious consequences. for
individuals, organizations, and societies as a whole. They can undermine the rule of law, distort
competition, and erode public trust in government and institutions. In many cases, bribery and.
corruption can, lead ‘to, economic and social inequality, as well as political instability and conflict.
E.2.1 Corruption
Transparency: International defines corruption. as'the illegal and illicit enrichment of authorities in
the government sector, whether politicians. or civil employees, via ‘the: misuse of public power
entrusted to them. IMF has defined corruption. as the use of public office: for private gain, or in.
other words, use. of official position, rank, or status by’ an office bearer for his own personal benefit.
Examples of corrupt behavior would include: (a) bribery, (b) extortion, (c) fraud, (d)
embezzlement, (e) nepotism, (f) ctonyism, (g) appropriation. of public assets and property for
private‘use; and (h) influence peddling. Corruption may take the following forms:

144[Page

০ Demand-Side Corruption refers to accepting or soliciting unlawful reimbursement or
unfair advantage, whereas providing such a, payout or benefit is referred to as' “supply-side
corruption.”

¢ Conventional Corruption is common among government personnel, regardless of rank.
and position. It occurs when. they acquire an unfair advantage while disregarding the
public’s needs. “Petty” and “grand” corruption are examples of conventional corruption.

o A few éxamples: of the use of Petty Corruption include the payment’ of bribes to
law enforcement officers, customs agents, medical professionals, and other
government. personnel. This category includes. facilitation payments, sometimes
called “grease” payments.

o Grand. Corruption results: when. elected officials and high-ranking government
workers abuse the opportunities provided, by their job with the government: Bribes
given or received, in connection with larger-scale government. initiatives, such as
construction and infrastructure projects, are increasingly common.

o Unconventional Corruption occurs when a public official or member of the
government does a specific action with the intent to benefit themselves personally
rather than the general public. Because there isn’t.a direct exchange of products or
services between the parties, the absence of a reciprocal connection. is crucial. This
kind of corruption comprises embezzlement, fraud, misappropriation, and breach of
trust.

Most cases of corruption include kickbacks or bid-rigging tactics.

০ Kickback Schemes can begin when an. employee accepts a gift froma grateful business.
The first gift is small and doesn’t require anything in return; the next one is bigger, and
eventually, the employee gets used to receiving gifts. The majority of kickback schemes
require cooperation between a vendor partner and an employee who approves purchases.
The employee accepts payment for the service. and signs an. invoice for overpriced or
honexistent goods. Alternatively, an inspector can receive payment for approving subpar
products or’poor'workmanship.

e Bid Rigging is an illegal practice in which ‘the parties involved plan to influence the result:
of a bidding process. Bid ‘rigging is a kind of price manipulation and. anti-competitive
cooperation; when bidders work together, the bidding process is weakened and the rigging
price may’ be higher than ‘what would have happened in a free market bidding. Consumers
and taxpayers might suffer as a result of bid rigging, having to pay higher pricing. People
that:participate get compensated. for’their-work.

145 [Page

Although ‘illicit economic: activity exists in every country, it is ‘more ‘prevalent in. those with high.
levels of corruption. Official macroeconomic data, which often only represent. the ‘formal sector of
an economy, become inaccurate when trying to gauge economic performance or serve as a:
foundation.for policy development and research. Because of significant illicit and unrecorded flows
of services and goods across the border in a booming smuggling industry, official statistics on
foreign trade, for instance, no longer accurately reflect a. country’s teal quantity, or worth, of
exports and imports.
E.2.2 Bribery
Bribery’ is the type of corruption most closely associated ‘with corruption in general. Bribery is
distinguished by its “quid pro quo” character. Bribery entails trade: It is simple to complicate ‘the
concept of bribery by adding words like “benefit: to the bribe-giver” or “providing anything 01
worth.” In truth, even if the items traded had little to no value, in the end, most’ people will view.
any transaction that satisfies the broad definition of corruption as a bribe.
In-reality, even if the items traded eventually ‘had little to no worth or were of little to no advantage
to the bribe-giver, most people will still see any transaction. that satisfies the broad definition of
corruption as a bribe. Bribery may be defined simply as: “The abuse or misuse of authority or trust.
in a quid pro quo trade. This. explanation incorporates. the idea of exchange and works. within the
general definition.”
The section 171B of Penal Code, 1860 describes bribery as-
(1) Whoever-: (i) gives a gratification to any person with the object of inducing him or any other
person to exercise any electoral right or of rewarding any person for having exercised any such
right; or 01) accepts either for himself or for any other person any gratification as a reward for
exercising any such right or for inducing or attempting to induce any other person to exercise any’
such right, commits the offence of bribery:
(2) A person who offers, or agrees to give, or offers:or attempts to procure, a gratification shall be
deemed to give a gratification.
(3) A‘person who obtains or agrees to. accept or attempts to obtain a gratification shall be deemed to
accept a gratification, and a person who accepts a gratification as a motive for doing what.he does
not intend to do, or as a:réward. for doing what he: has not: done, shall be deemed to have accepted
the gratification asa reward.

146[Page

Section 171E of the said Penal. Code includes the punishment of bribery as- whoever commits the
offence of bribery shall. be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may’
extend to one year, or with fine, or with both: Provided that: bribery by treating shall. be: punished
with fine only.

No one definition of what constitutes bribery is universally accepted. Still, all definitions concur.
that it involves someone in a position of trust behaving willingly and dishonestly in. return ‘for, a.
financial benefit. It is unnecessary:to trade money or any payment to receive: the advantage. It can
come in various shapes, such as costly gifts, hospitality, and other charges out of pocket, access to
resources, 018 favor done for a close friend, a family member, or.a.cause you believe. in.

E.2.3 Corruption induced Money Laundering

Corruption and money laundering aré intrinsically linked. Similar ‘to other seriovs crimes,
corruption offences, such as bribery and theft of public funds, are generally committed for the
purpose of obtaining private gain. Money laundering is.the process of concealing illicit gains that:
were generated. from criminal activity. By successfully laundering the proceeds of ia corruption.
offence, the illicit gains may be enjoyed. without fear of being confiscated.

Combating nioney laundering is a cornerstone of the broader agenda to fight organized and serious
crime by depriving: criminals of ill-gotten gains and by prosecuting those who assist in the
laundering of such ill-gotten gains. The FATF recognises the link between corruption and money:
laundering, including how AML/CFT measures help combat corruption. This is why corruption
issues are taken into account during the FATF mutual evaluation process which. assesses countries’
compliance with. the FATF Recommendations. For example, the FATF considers how effectively
AML/CET measures are implemented in..a country by considering the number of investigations,
prosecutions. and. convictions for money laundering, and the amount of property confiscated in.
relation to money laundering or underlying predicate offences, including corruption and bribery
(Recommendation. 32). As well, the FATF considers whether the country can demonstrate that it
has. a solid framework. of measures to prevent and combat corruption through respect: for
transparency, good governance principles, high ethical and professional requirements, and
established a reasonably efficient court system to ensure: that judicial decisions are properly
enforced, These elements ‘are important because significant weaknesses or shortcomings in these:
areas may impede effective implementation of the: FATF Recommendations.

E.2.3.1 Initiatives of Bangladesh to fight Corruption and Money Laundering
VAT [Page

Bangladesh signed. and. ratified. the UNCAC. in 2007. The country also signed the Convention.
against Transnational Organized Crime in 2011. To prevent. corruption. and other corrupt practices
in the country and to conduct inquiry and investigation for other specific offences Anti-Corruption.
Commission (ACC) was formed through an. act ‘promulgated. on 23 February 2004 that came. into
force on 9 May 2004. Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC) is an independent authority tasked. with
preventing, investigating and prosecuting corruption. The ACC was, in practice, the sole LEA
responsible. for investigating and prosecuting all ML cases until October 2015. Bangladesh has
conducted two National Risk Assessments (NRA) and.a number of sectoral risk assessments. The
2015. NRA identified five high risk threat areas in which Corruption is one of them. The: NRA:
identifies domestic proceeds as the predominant ML threat; with laundering of proceeds
domestically and outside the country:.
E.2.3.2 Counter Measures to fight Corruption induced Money Laundering

« Safeguarding the integrity in Public Sector
Corruption flourishes in an. enyironment where state officials and. public sector employees ‘misuse
their positions for private gain. Effective implementation of the FATF Recommendations helps to
safeguard the integrity of the public sector by ensuring that key government agencies involved in
anti-money laundering and combating terrorist. financing (such as the: financial intelligence ‘unit,
law enforcement and prosecutorial authorities, supervisors and others) are adequately resourced and
manned by staff of high integrity.

০ .AML/CFT Compliance Measures in Private Sector
Private sector institutions. are’ an attractive. venue for laundering the proceeds of corruption,
particularly if they aré owned or infiltrated by corrupt persons or have implemented weak
AML/CFT measures. AML/CFT compliance measures help to protect designated financial
institutions like the banks and other designated. businesses and ‘professions by ‘requiring that their
owners, controllers and employees are properly vetted, and they have adequate systems in place
to comply with AML/GFT requirements.
Role of Top Management: Persons holding: a, significant controlling interest or management
function in a designated private sector insfitution must. be vetted. In the case of financial
institutions, such. vetting should use “fit and proper” criteria for directors and managers. This
helps to prevent corrupt persons and other criminals from gaining. control over ‘a financial
institution.
148 [Page

Employee Screening: Institutions must 901-0611, €110010%-065 to ensure: high. standards. This helps to
prevent corrupt persons from infiltrating or otherwise criminally abusing a financial service
provider..

Effective Internal Control, System: The: institutions must implement internal control systems
and audit functions to ensure compliance with AML/CFT. measures. This helps: such institutions
to detect‘when. they are being abused by criminals and corrupt persons.

Monitoring and Supervision: The institutions must be subject to adequate supervision and
monitoring by supervisory authorities (or self-regulatory organizations, 'in the case of lawyers,
accountants, teal estate agents, dealers in precious metals. and stones, and trust and company
service providers) with. sufficient supervisory, inspection and sanctioning powers to ensure
compliance with AML/CFT ‘measures. Robust supervision and monitoring of the ‘financial sector
deters and facilitates the detection of corruption and.other criminal activity.

Ensuring Transparency: Corruption is more likely to go unpunished in opaque circumstances
where the proceeds of such crimes are laundered and cannot be traced back to the underlying
corrupt activity, as is the case when the ownership of assets is obscured, and transactions and
transfers leave incomplete (or no) audit trail. Effective implementation AML/CFT measures
increase the transparency of the financial system by creating a reliable paper. trail of business
relationships, transactions, and discloses the. true ownership and movement of assets.

Know Your Customer Process and Verification: Establishing business relationships or
conducting transactions on. behalf of customers, designated private sector institutions must. verify
the identity of the customer, any natural. person. on whose behalf a customer is acting, and .any
individuals who ultimately.own or control customers that are legal. persons(such as companies) or
legal arrangements (such as trusts). Additional precautions must be: taken when transactions are
conducted through a third party or are not done face-to-face. These precautions: increase
transparency by making it difficult. for corrupt persons to conduct businéss anonymously, or hide
their business ‘relationships and transactions behind other people, corporate structures, or complex
legal arrangements.

Record Keeping: All customer identification, transaction. and account records, and business
correspondence must be kept, so that they can be made. available to the authorities on. a timely
basis: Such record keeping measures ensure that there is a reliable paper trail the authorities can
use: to trace the proceeds of corruption, and use as ‘evidence to prosecute corruption and. other
149 Page

crimes.
Implementation of Risk Based Approach: Financial. service providers. must put in place
appropriate risk management systems to determine whether a (potential) customer or the individual
who ultimately owns or controls the customer is a politically exposed person (PEP). When doing
business with a PEP, financial, service providers must take reasonable measures to determine the
PEP’s. source of wealth and furids. Such medsures. increase the possibility of detecting instances
where: public officials and other persons who are (or have been) entrusted with. prominent public
functions. in a foreign country — such,.as Heads of State, senior politicians, senior government
judicial or military officials, senior executives of state-owned corporations and. important political
party officials—are abusing their positions for private gain
Detection of Suspicious Transaction: The institutions must conduct ongoing due diligence on all
business relationships to ‘ensure that. the transactions being conducted are consistent with their
knowledge: of the customer, business. and risk profile, and where necessary, the source of funds.
Special attention must be given to any complex, unusual or large transactions, or unusual patterns.
of transactions, that have no apparent-or visible economic: or lawful purpose. Increased scrutiny
must: be: given. to. high risk: customers (such as foreign PEPs), jurisdictions, business relationships:
and transactions. This enables the detection of unusual or suspicious activity that might be related
to corruption and‘which must be ‘reported to the BFIU for further analysis and investigation.
Ensuring Transparency in the Financial Sector: The. transparency of ownership. makes difficult.
to hide: the proceeds of corruption within a company or trust. Wire transfers are a fast way to move
the proceeds of corruption elsewhere to obscure their source and. must, therefore, be accompanied
by accurate and meaningful information ‘which. identifies the person who sent the. transaction.
Likewise, cash. or bearer riegotiable instruments ‘that-are being moved across national borders either
on one’s person, through. the mail, or in. containerized, cargo would also leave no paper trail and,
therefore, must be declared or disclosed to the authorities. Transparent movement of assets makes it
possible to trace the movement of corruption. proceeds.
E.2.4 Anti-Corruption Commission (ACC)
To tackle the corruption problems the Government of Bangladesh established an independent.
Commission named Anti-Corruption Commission. (ACC) to prevent corruption. and other corrupt
practices in the country and to conduct. inquiry and investigation for other specific offenses. and to
enact other relevant matters by’ virtue of section 3 of Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2004
(ACCA 2004). In accordance with section.17 of the ACCA 2004 ACC may inquire and investigate
any allegation, of corruption on its own initiative, or upon an. application, filed by an ‘aggrieved
150|Page .

person or by any person:on his/her. behalf, file and conduct cases under this Act, carry out research
on the prevention. of corruption and submit recommendations to the President regarding the actions
to be taken on the. basis of the research findings, promote. the values of honesty and ‘integrity in
order to prevent corruption and take measures to build up mass awareness against corruption,
arrange seminars, symposiums, workshops etc. on subjects falling within the jurisdiction of the
commission.
E.2.4.1 Main Provisions of Anti-Corruption Commission Act, 2004:
o Establishment of Commission, etc. (Section 3)
1) After this law-has come into force, the government shall.as soon as possible through an
official gazette.notification establishes.a commission named the Anti-Corruption.Comimission
to meet the objectives of this law.
(2) This commission shall be independent and. impartial.
= ‘Function of ACC (Section 17)

The Commission may discharge any or-all of the ‘following functions: -
(a) Inquiry and investigation into the offences set.out inthe schedule.
(b) File and conduct cases under ‘this Act on the basis. of investigation and inquiry under clause
(c) Inquire into any allegation. of corruption on its own initiative, or upon. an application filed by an
aggrieved person or by any person on.his/her behalf.
(d) Perform any duty entrusted.to. the commission by anti-corruption laws.
(e) Review the legally accepted measures for preventing corruption arid submit recommendations to
the President their effective implementation.
(f) Carry out research on ‘the:prevention of corruption and submit recommendations to ‘the President:
regarding the actions to be:taken on the basis of the research findings.
(g): Promote the values. of honesty and integrity in order to:prevent corruption and take measures to
build up mass awareness ‘against corruption.
(00) Arrange seminars, symposiums, workshops etc. on subjects falling within the jurisdiction of the:
commission.

151[Page

(i) Identify the sources of different types of corruption. existing in Bangladesh against the backdrop
of. the country’s socio-economic conditions. and present’ to the President: any recommendations for
appropriate action.
(j) Inquire into corruption; investigate, file cases and determine the process of approval by. the
commission in respect of such inquiry, investigation and filing of:cases.
(k) Perform, any other'work considered ‘necessary for the’ prevention of corruption..

০ Special powers of the Commission in respect:of inquiry or investigation (Section 19)
(1) In-respect of any inquiry or investigation into allegations of corruption the Commission shall
have the following powers, namely:. -
(a) Summons witnesses, ensure their appearance and interrogate them under oath.
(b).Discover and ‘present any document.
(c) Take evidence under oath.
(d) Call for public-records or-its certified copies from any: court. office.
(e) Issue‘warrants. forthe interrogation of’ witnesses and. the examination of documents.
(f) Any other matter tequired for realising and fulfilling the:aims and objectives of this law.

০ ‘Power of Investigation (Section 20)
(L).Notwithstanding anything in the Code: of Criminal Procedure, corruption shall ‘be the subject
matter of investigation by the commission alone.
(2) The commission. may through. an official gazette notification empower a subordinate officer of
the commission the power to investigate corruption under sub-section (1).
(3) For the purpose of investigation into ‘offences under this law, an officer empowered under sub-
section (2) shall have-the. power of an officer-in-charge 08 police station.
(4) Besides the provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3), the commissioners shall.also have the power
to investigate any offence under'this law.

০ Power of Arrest (Section 21)

152 [Page .

Notwithstanding any other provision of this law, if any officer empowered by the commission has.

justifiable reasons to believe (0081. 8 person in. his/her:name. or in the name of otliers is. the owner or

in possession of moveable: or immoveable property not compatible: with known and declared.

sources of his/her income, then subject to the permission of the court the officer can, arrest ‘that.

person.

দ Declaration of properties (Section 26)

(1). If the commission is satisfied on the basis of its own information and after necessary

investigation that. any person or any other’ person on his behalf is in possession or has obtained

ownership of property not consistent‘with his legal sources. of income then the commission through

an order in writing shall ask that person to submit.a statement of assets. and liabilities in the manner

determined. by the commission and to furnish. any other information mentioned ‘in that order.

(2) If any person =

(a) after having received an order mention ‘in sub-section (1) fails to. submit-the written statement or-

furnish the information, accordingly or submits any written statement or provides any information

that is false or baseless. or‘there are sufficient grounds to doubt their veracity or

(b). submits any book, account, record, declaration, return or any document under sub-section (1). or

gives any statement that is false or baseless. or there are sufficient grounds to doubt its veracity,

then that person ‘will be sentenced to a prison term of up to three (3) years or a fine or both.

Possession. of Property in Excess.of Known. Sources of Income. (Section 27)

(1) If there are sufficient and ‘reasonable grounds to believe that.a person in his/her own. name or

any’ other ‘person on his/her behalf is in possession. and has. obtained ownership of moveable or

immoveable property through dishonest means and the property is not-consistent with the known.
153 (Page

Module-F: Financial Crime Control (FCC) for New Technology

The Financial Action Task Force (EATF) defines “new technologies” as Innovative skills, methods,
and processes that are used to achieve goals relating to the effective. implementation of AMLCFT
requirements or Innovative ways. to use established technology-based processes. to comply: with.
AML/GFT obligations.
F.1 FCC Risk Associated with New Services and Technology
The FATF Recommendation 15 urges that. the countries and financial institutions should, identify
and. assess the money laundering or terrorist: financing risks that. may arise in relation. to (a) the
development of:new:products and new business practices, including new: delivery mechanisms, and
(b):the use of new or:developing technologies for both:new and pre-existing’ products. In the case of
financial institutions, such a risk assessment should. take place prior to the launch of the new
products, business. practices or the use of new or developing technologies. They should take
appropriate measures to manage and-mitigate those risks.
F.2. FinTech. Products
Financial Technology (FinTech) improves and automates financial. services using new technologies.
FinTech aims to compete with the traditional financial services method becatise technology’ has
developed, and. ‘traditional methods are insufficient, so the financial sector needs FinTech. and its
solutions. It has developed the financial sector using mobile banking, mobile payment, cryptocurrency,
and bitcoin. technologies:
According to the Egnont Group of financial intelligence units, FinTech refers to entities that enable
payments or transfers of value by using new or emerging technologies. Common examples of
FinTech providing financial services include:

© Jnternet. banking

০ Mobile banking

০ Digital or electronic money

০ Money transfer platforms

০ E-commerce platforms

০ Non-face-to-face investments

০ Crowdfunding platforms etc.
FinTech service in, the financial sector has provided undeniable convenience to the industry and
customers, andFinTech is growing and developing day by day. It has transformed the modern
financial landseape, harnessing global ‘internet connectivity to deliver innovative new products and
services and improve customer experiences. However, the benefits of -fintech have been
accompanied by considerable compliance risks as. criminals use advances in. technology to develop

154 72389

Fintech money laundering techniques and finance terrorist activities. In FinTech, money laundering.
is attractive for offenders because of the increase in, the initiation of transactions in ‘these systems,
unlimited ‘money flow, and the transaction of anonymous accounts facilitate: money laundering for
criminals. With the rise in digital money circulation, criminals continue their money laundering
activities in this direction. Also, electronic anti-money laundering (transaction laundering) has. started
to replace traditional anti-money laundering. This case shows’ that FinTech is a: potential target for
money laundering criminal, organizations. As a result of all these data, FinTech. may be exposed to
serious AML risks: So, to ‘prevent AML/CTF and. avoid criminal investigations, FinTech should. use
best practices and.comply with-regulations just like other ROs.

F.2.1 Fintech AML Risks

Money launderers have kept pace with advances in financial technology, developing new

methodologies ‘to. exploit and avoid AML compliance measures. Accordingly, firms should. be

aware of the following types of fintech AML risks:

« Customer identities: Since fintech. products and services ate accessed over the internet, money
launderers may take advantage of the anonymity benefits of online transactions, submitting
incomplete, misleading, or false information in order to. conceal their identities and avoid AML
controls.

« Transaction speeds: The increasing speed of internet connections means that customers ‘can.
complete: transactions in seconds. Money launderers may exploit that speed by transferring
large volumes of funds into and out of accounts or between different institutions quickly,
outpacing the:scrutiny of authorities.

2 Money-muling: Money launderers may use ‘third-parties to engage with fintech services on
their behalf as a way to introduce illegal funds to the financial system. These so-called. ‘money
mules’ may be vulnerable members of society, such as the elderly or the disabled, or may have
been. coerced or incentivized to. take part in:the illegal activity.

2 Cross-border transactions: Fintech services can be accessed. anywhere and used ‘to transfer
‘funds: between accounts. located. in different countries. Money launderers may exploit*the cross-
border, connectivity of fintech services to transfer illegal funds to higher risk jurisdictions with.
fewer or less stringent AML controls than. their accounts of origin.

© Regulatory lag: The novelty and innovation of fintech services, often outpaces the ability of.
financial. regulators to address illegal activity. Money’ launderers may be able to. identify:
weaknesses and blindspots in regulation that: authorities have not addressed, and use those
opportunities to disguise illegal funds.

155 [Page

F 2.1 Mobile Financial Services (MFS)
Mobile Financial Services (MFS) is one of the: finest. FinTech ‘innovations in the: last decade-
reshaping. the ‘financial service delivery models. especially in the developing economies. It has
enabled the financial service providers to include the bottom of the pyramid population. into formal.
financial services which, was otherwise impossible. MFS ‘was launched. in Bangladesh in 2011 and.
gained popularity within a short. span of time. Total ‘number of MEFS accounts has crossed the fifty
million. mark in just six years making. Bangladesh one of the fastest. growing MFS markets in the
world. Jt has brought revolutionary changes in. local money transfer services where low income
population ‘is ‘the main customer. Other services such as merchant ‘payment and social benefit:
disbursement are gaining momentum in recent times. However, any financial. services including
MEFS. are not insulated from potential abuses for illicit purposes. Several typologies of abuse of
MFS have been. observed in MFS. market. These are unique in nature compared to: other financial
services. Culprits are also innovating new techniques of fraud ‘that: make the task of: regulators and
law enforcement agencies more challenging. Perpetrators have been seen to. use this service to
receive and transfer proceeds of crime anonymously.
There are several factors ‘which. are contributing for the abuse of m-money in ‘Bangladesh.. Agents
acquire and register multiple SIM. cards. to conduct anonymous transaction (ATr) of the customers.
Customers, having low academic qualification, find it difficult. to navigate the mobile menu (in
English language) required to conduct transaction. Customer acquisition based on ‘previous. falsely’
registered SIM. along with lack of unique identification documents for all citizens and ID
verification tools for the MFS providers; and inadequate monitoring mechanism for the agents are
contributing heavily for the abuse of MFS.
F.2.2 Transaction Platform E-Wallet
E-wallet or Digital wallets enable users to link all their payment methods ‘under a single account.
The account stores funds, credit card numbers, and even cryptocurrencies and these wallets are
accessible online through a smartphone or. a website.
The ‘main feature of e-wallets is that all information related to transactions is encrypted and,
tokenised. This enhances security and an individual’s privacy’but also leaves the merchants ‘in vain,
as they cannot spot credit card scams.
F.2.2.1 The Risks of Money Laundering with Digital Wallets
eWallet firms pose a risk of money laundering and other crimes due to the anonymity provided by
online financial services. Not only this but other aspects, such as the speed of transactions and ‘lack.
156 [Page .

of regulations from domestic and global authorities may also: contribute to it. In detail, those: risks
involve:

e Anonymity: Sometimes digital wallet service providers may implement inadequate identity
verification measures: Criminals take advantage of this to Use services anonymously. and
fulfil their illicit; intents. They use: different tactics, such as proxies to open an account or
even open many accounts for‘laundering ‘money.

০ Transaction Obscurity: Cybercriminals manipulate digital wallet services to conceal their
efforts of laundering money. They either access multiple eWallet accounts from a single
device to hide their identity or make many small transactions to conceal a handsome amount:
of transferred. money. ‘Digital wallets also offer to transfer money abroad to elude the
attention of authorities.

০ Speed: eWallet. transactions occur quickly and in real-time just like many other digital
financial services. This means that criminals. can move illegal funds around quickly,
bypassing safeguards and investigations. Rapid transactions help criminals structure: their
transactions, using several transfers across many: accounts, to conceal, the ‘illegal origin
effectively.

০ Lack of Oversight: Some countries do not have effective legislation in place to deal with
eWallet issues. Scammers, who are on the hunt for such loopholes, take this opportunity and
exploit regulatory blind, spots to accomplish their illicit: goals. Moreover, the lack of
oversight facilitates criminals in transferring illegal funds to different countries by avoiding
suspicious activity reporting rules and reporting thresholds.

F.2.2.2 Compliance with AML Regulations regarding e-wallet fraud

The Financial Action Task Force (FATF) sets out an Anti Money Laundering and Countering
Tettorist Financing (AML/CFT) :framework. for the member states to implement in ‘national
legislation. This means that’all the companies, including digital. wallet service providers, have a
legally obligated to conduct comprehensive risk assessments of their clients and modify their AML
response proportionately. In practice, eWallets should include the below-mentioned. measures to
satisfy AML regulations:

০ Customer Due Diligence: Digital wallets should conduct Customer Due Diligence (CDD).
to verify Personally Identifiable Information (PII) like names, date of birth, address, etc.
‘High-risk clients have to undergo Enhanced Due Diligence (EDD) under the risk-based
approach.

e Transaction Monitoring: eWallet:services must check their customers’ transactions and
identify any suspicious activity that shows money laundering. In case: any suspicious

157[Page

activity is detected, the organisation. must generate a Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) to
notify the authorities promptly.

e Screening and Monitoring: Digital wallet firms must check that'their customers do not:
appear in sanction lists, watchlists, and Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs) lists. Moreover,
eWallets also monitor clients: for negative social media stories or any related things that.
‘increase the risk of money laundering.

Digital wallet service providers should. look out for the following “red flag” behaviours: to improve
AML compliance:

e Disparities of inconsistencies in client verification during.account-registration.

e Unusual patterns of transactions :or those involving.PEPs or high-risk customers.

০ ‘Rapid and frequent cash withdrawals, transferred to digital wallets.

০ ‘Routine transfer.of money to third-party accounts after. depositing them to eWallets.

e Transactions that occur above or below the reporting thresholds.

e Several account registrations, transfers or deposits that seem connected.

F.2.3 E-Commerce Site and Market Place

E-commerce, short for electronic commerce, tefers to the exchange of all types of goods, services,
funds, or data over'an electronic network, usually the internet. This type of business transaction can
take place between. businesses (B2B), businesses to. consumers, (0820 and consumers to. other:
consumers (C2C). E-commerce has revolutionized. the way we shop and do business, making it
easier and. more: convenient for consumers and companies to: connect and transact. However, as
with any technology-driven platform, e-commerce has also. created new opportunities for criminal
activity. Cybercriminals have found ways to exploit vulnerabilities in online transactions and.
leverage the anonymity and. global. reach. of the internet to perpetrate a wide range of crimes, from
(tax)fraud to. money laundering. commerce businesses can be exploited for criminal purposes in
four major ways:

1) Committing fraud against the customer by failing to deliver goods or Services.

2) Buying goods or services using stolen bank card data.

3) Creating e-commerce businesses. as a. front for illicit: transactions (for example, to accept.
bank card payments for drugs).

4) Abusing online marketplaces to move criminally obtained funds (for example, through the
sale of computer-generated books sold'via Amazon)

Of these criminal modus operandi, the latter two present particular monéy-laundering ‘and terrorist-
financing (financial crime) threats. because they involve consensual transactions that are intended to
158 |Page .

remain. undetected. Despite their role in concealing criminal income, these phenomena remain
poorly understood. For instance, there are multiple examples of criminal groups using e-commerce
businesses to receive payments for illicit transactions — a criminal typology known as ‘transaction
laundering.
E-commerce money laundering or transaction laundering is. the process of leveraging e-commerce
and merchant processing to create fictitious transactions that: appear legitimate. These transactions
may involve knowing or unknowing participants. in the e-commerce ecosystem, a network of
interconnected parties involved in. the buying and selling of goods and services. Transactions may
be facilitated by front companies that; appear to sell legitimate goods and services ‘but are set up by
money launderers to provide cover for their illegitimate activities, pass-thru companies set. up by
third parties and used. by one or more criminals, or funnel accounts.in which payment processors
may commingle legitimate and illegitimate transactions. They may involve the sale. of fake or
contraband goods, the value of e-commerce transactions may be over-inflated, or the transactions
may simply be nonexistent, a scheme sometimes referred to as ghost. laundering. E-commerce has
given rise 0.3 variety of ‘frauds that can have a significant impact on ‘both consumers and.
businesses. Refund. fraud isa common tactic. used by fraudsters who are unable to receive goods or
cash. out using stolen. credit. cards. Another type of fraud is interception, where: the fraudster places
an order using a valid billing’.and shipping address, but then attempts to intercept the goods. for
themselves.
The other types of fraud ‘that e-commerce face are-

‘Identity Theft
Identity theft happens when a fraudster steals.a person’s identity information to make ‘fraudulent.
purchases or transactions. Typically, the criminal obtains this. information through phishing scams,
hacking, or by purchasing: it on the dark: web. Once they access the victim’s details, they can use
them ‘to. open .new accounts, make purchasés, or commit other fraudulent activities. In the famous
words of the notorious hacker Ngo Minh Hieu, who had stolen personal data from ‘over 60% of.
Americans — “when a person loses their identity, they. lose it forever.”

‘© Payment Fraud
Another type. of e-commerce fraud 13 payment fraud, where: a cybercriminal. uses stolen ‘payment.
information or creates fake payment details to complete a purchase. For example, a fraudster may
use: a stolen. credit card number ‘to make a. purchase or create a fake bank. account or payment
gateway to trick:the seller into accepting the payment.
159 [Page

০ Chargeback Fraud

Known as friendly fraud, chargebacks are also a common form of e-commerce fraud, where a

customer disputes a. charge with their bank or credit card. company, claiming that they didn’t

authorize. the; transaction or that the product was not delivered as promised. To prevent double

refunds, some e-commerce marketplaces may ask their users to close the dispute they opened and.

work with their ‘bank to resolve the. issue instead of making fraudulent chargeback claims.

These and other types of e-commerce fraud. underscore the importance of vigilance and caution.

when engaging in online: transactions. E-commerce is also being’ ৮5960. 39 a tool for tax evasion.

Several factors have led to e-commerce being recognized as ‘a means for tax evasion. Among these

factors is. the challenge faced by tax. authorities in tracking and monitoring e-commerce

transactions, particularly those involving cross-border salés.

F.2.3.1, Red-Flad Indicators

Several red flags cam indicate: fraud in e-commerce transactions. First, be wary of any sellers who

démand payment through non-traceable methods such as wite transfers, gift cards, or

cryptocurrency. These methods make it difficult to track the: transaction and can be a red flag for

fraud.

Second, be careful when bumping into sellers offering goods at prices significantly lower than.

market, value.. This can be a sign that the product is counterfeit. or that the seller is attempting to.

scam the buyer by taking their money without delivering the product.

Third, check the reviews and feedback. If they have a high number of negative reviews, this may be

a sign that they aren’t.a legitimate seller and that the buyer is likely to encounter issues with. the

transaction.

Finally, if the seller is unresponsive or refuses ‘to. provide information about the product or shipping,

this can be a.sign of fraudulent activity. Legitimate: sellers will happily answer any questions or at.

least provide additional details about the item and the transaction.

F.2.3.2 Compliance Requirements. regarding E-commerce Related Money Laundering

As ecommerce continues to grow’ in popularity, so will, the ‘threats it faces, from ecommerce fraud,

to money laundering. They no longer have the option. of ignoring the dangers, hoping it won’t

affect. them, as every business faces the real danger of becoming a victim. This is why. the banks:
16017 98০.

should take precaution and cairy on ongoing monitoring of the transaction of e-commerce
businesses.

«© Screening and Ongoing Monitoring
Screening and. ongoing monitoring can. significantly aid e-commerce platforms in mitigating risks
and -preventing ‘fraudulent activities in real-time. By regularly checking: customer behavior,
platforms can detect and flag suspicious, users and automatically detect unusual patterns or high-
risk: customers. This enables e-commerce marketplaces to take action and. deter fraud easier, no
matter the stage of the relationship with the customer. Additionally, ongoing screening and.
monitoring can help e-commerce platforms maintain. compliance with AML and. other regulatory
requirements, thus helping minimize legal risks and.reputational damage.

« Customer Due Diligence
The banks need to compliance with the directions of the regulatory bodies and carry out proper due
diligence in dealing business with the e-commerce businesses

2 Employee awareness and training
Employees are one of the biggest elements in any institution, and they can help to fight against’
criminals. and fraudsters. Educating and training them about recognizing signs and. red flags
connected. with. money laundering and what to.do when they encounter it will significantly increase
the chances to identify any fraudulent or suspicious activities.
F.3 Money Laundering in the New Payment Method, (NPM)
Anonymity, high negotiability and utility of funds as well'as global. access. to cash. through ATMs
are some of the major factors that can add.to the attractiveness of NPMs for money launderers.
Anonymity can be reached either “directly” by making ‘use: of. truly anonymous products (0.6.
without, any customer (identification) or “indirectly” by abusing personalized products (i-e.,
circumvention, of verification measures by using fake: or stolen identities, or using. strawmen or
nominees etc.). In a report titled ‘Money Laundering Using New Payment Method’, .FATF has
identified three. main typologies related to the misuse of NPMs for. money. laundering and terrorist
financing purposes which.are.as follows:
* Third party funding (including strawmen and:nominees).

* Exploitation of the non-face-to-face nature of NPM accounts.
* Complicit.NPM ‘providers or their employees
161 [Page .

The money laundering (ML) and terrorist financing (TF) risks posed. by NPMs can be effectively
mitigated by several countermeasures taken by NPM service providers. Obviously, anonymity as a
risk factor could be ‘mitigated by implementing robust identification and, verification procedures.
But even in the absence of such. ‘procedures, the risk. posed by an anonymous product can be
effectively mitigated by other measures such, as imposing value limits (i.e., limits on transaction,
amounts or frequency) or implementing strict monitoring systems. For this reason, all risk factors:
and risk mitigants should be taken. into account when assessing the overall. risk of a. given.
individual NPM product or service
F.3.1 Prepaid Cards
In, the twenty-first century, prepaid cards have become part and parcel of human life: It was first
available in. the 1990s, but it only recently gained mainstream popularity when people started using
it to pay bills and online shop. Researchers suggest that the net worth of the prepaid cards market:
will grow to more than USD 3.1 Trillion by 2021. This volume makes prepaid cards interesting :for
criminals and prepaid card money laundering.
On the one hand, these Prepaid cards have: made: the lives..of consumers and ‘the general. masses.
very easy by ‘making the bill payment: and.other payments easy. On the other hand, this technology
has facilitated criminal fraud and prepaid card money. laundering.
F.3.1.1 Money Laundering through Prepaid Cards
Prepaid cards facilitate users to buy any ‘product from. anywhere and from any outlet. They also
assist them in sending the purchased. product anywhere. They are using this facility to send and
transfer illegal funds to different parts of the world. The criminals are using Prepaid cards in the
placement, layering, and integration. phases of money laundering.
F.3.1.1.1 Prepaid Card Money Laundering Stages
Prepaid. cards. are used by criminals in each of the money laundering stages, including placement,
layering, and integration.
1) Placement
The criminals use their illegal funds to purchase:.a bulk of prepaid cards. They are also using 00010.
to clean ‘their black money. They use their cards to buy products to introduce their money into. the:
legal financial system. Hence, in this way, they clean their illegal black.money. In addition, they are
also transporting these cards from one country to another country to deceive scrutiny from the
162(Page

relevant authorities. These criminals are also using money mules to buy and.sell these Prepaid cards
to transport the illegal money from one place to other, even across the borders.
2) Layering
Layering is a crucial stage in money laundering. In. this phase, the launderer uses their money to
buy expensive: items: and resell them again. They do it many times to hide the origin and source of
the funds. This step is. called layering. The criminals also use Prepaid. cards to buy expensive items
such.as laptops and resell them to hide the source. In this way, the criminals are using prepaid cards
as a currency.
3) Integration
This is the last stage in money. laundering. In this phase, the launderer uses the illegal money to buy
expensive items for themselves. In. this way, criminals. integrate illicit. cash into the country’s
financial system. In this context, criminals use Prepaid cards to buy’ legitimate goods and services
such as expensive electronic items, drug manufacturing components, and insurance. products.
F.3.1.2 Features That.Make Prepaid Cards Prone to Money Laundering
Some of the main prepaid card features that criminals exploit to do money laundering and frauds
are. as ‘under:
1) Anonymity
Unlike other credit card cards, Prepaid cards do not require strict customers due. to diligence
verification and identification. The criminals are: taking advantage of this feature. They are using it
to buy goods.and services to integrate illegal money into the financial system.
2) Global Reach
Using Prepaid. cards, one can buy anything ‘from anywhere at any time. This allows criminals to
purchase goods and services using their illegal money from any part of the world. These prepaid
cards can. even be-used to fund unlawful activity in any part.of the world.
3) Portability
Transferring a bulk of the money from one part of the world to another part.of the world is complex.
and even impossible. However, .a small prepaid card is very. ০৪৪১ to transport from one part of the
world to other. So, criminals are using this card to send:money across the border.

163 (Page

4) Funding Methods
The transaction history: of the Prepaid cards can be hidden easily. It is difficult to find out the
source fund loaded into the card. Funds can be transferred to prepaid cards using different mediums
such as phone.and online banking.
F.3.1.3 Red.Flags Indicators regarding Prepaid Cards
1. When a.customer holds an excessive number of cards (according ‘to. program parameters)
2. An unwilling customer refuses to provide the information the CIP requires
3. Customers who present unusual or suspect: identification documents that the financial,
institution.is unable to validate
4. Custoniers who request that cards be shipped outside of the country
5. Tax identification numbers for customers with variations:in their tiatties may be used
6. In response to notification of: mandatory reporting, a customer is reluctant:to provide the
information required or to proceed:with the transaction,
7. Coerce. or attempt to. coerce an employee of a bank to not file the required recordkeeping. or
reporting documents
8. Withdrawals in.small.amounts followed by large deposits in ‘foreign currency
9. The use of multiple value loadings at different locations by the same Cardholder
10..An unusually large:number of authorizations fail
11. Authorizations appearing on the card account but not associated with the transactions
12. When transactions occur simultaneously in multiple states 01001000105
13. Transactions that occur at:the same time and ‘for the same:amount week after week
14. Transactions that consistently occur outside of the Cardholder’s area of residence
15..No logical explanation for transactions
16. Transactions that are out of:character for the Cardholder
17. Multiple transactions slightly beneath ‘reporting thresholds
18. Clients: buying many Prepaid cards or making a bulk of transactions using prepaid cards are
considered suspicious.
19. A single person holding multiple prepaid accounts also triggers.a red flag.
20. Frequent loading of the prepaid card by.a 00110 0819 also reflects the suspicious transaction.
21. Loading funds ‘more than the threshold. is also questionable and need to be looked at it
carefully.
22. Transferring funds soon after loading:is also suspicious.
23. Abnormal purchasing power and pattern is also:doubtful.
24. Sending:prepaid cards.to the recipient’through an irrelevant person is also doubtful.
164 [Page

25. Prepaid card.only using for cash withdrawal is also suspicious.
F.3.1.4 AML/CFT Due Diligence Measures
There are a number of measures in place to prevent and detect money laundering activities
involving prepaid cards. Some. of these measures include:

° Customer due diligence: (CDD): Financial institutions are required to gather information
about the customer and verify their identity‘to. prevent anonymous usage of prepaid cards.

e Monitoring of transactions: Financial institutions continuously monitor transactions for
unusual. or suspicious activities, such as large transactions or transactions to high-risk
countries.

e Reporting: Financial. institutions are required:to report suspicious transactions to BFIU.

e Sanction Screenign: Financial institutions use blocklists to prevent transactions with.
sanctioned individuals, entities, and countries.

¢ Enhanced. Due Diligence (EDD): Financial institutions are required to. perform enhanced,
due diligence.on high-risk customers and transactions, such as those’to high-risk countries.

By implementing these: measures, financial institutions can help. prevent and detect money
laundering activities involving prepaid. cards. However, it is important to note that money:
launderers are constantly finding new ways to evade. these ‘measures; ‘so it is. crucial for: financial
institutions to:stay vigilant and continuously. update their: AML procedures.

F.3.2 Mobile Banking

Mobile ‘money systems can be abused to launder money in a similar way to bank accounts: A.
person can easily and quickly set up multiple different accounts under their own or false names and
transfer money between them to throw investigators off the track. Bangladesh, is playing a flagship
role in leveraging mobile financial services to provide access to formal financial services to
vulnerable segments of the society such as the rural poor, women and Forcibly Displaced Persons
(FDPs).. However, like many other countries, Bangladesh is also experiencing misuse of Mobile
Financial Services (MFS) for criminal purposes. that. can. deter broader financial inclusion. Early
detection of potential risks and. vulnerabilities are essential for timely-intervention.

F.3.3 Internet based Services

Criminals have shown adaptability: and opportunism in, finding new channels to launder the
proceeds oftheir illegal activities arid to finance:terrorism. As the Internet becomeés:more and more
a worldwide phenomenon, commercial. websites and. Internet payment systems are potentially
165 [Page

50019001008. wide: range of risks and vulnerabilities that can be exploited by criminal organizations
and. terrorist group. The Internet opened up the world of e-commerce and led to ‘the development of
various: types of Internet-based payment services which emerged. in. the late 1990s to intermediate:
between online buyers and. sellers (P2B). and. for personal transfers (P2P) transactions., During the
last decade, financial institutions and retailers have continued to develop electronic payment
instruments which use the Internet and are available to a wide tange of consumers. Internet-based.
payment services provide mechanisms for customers to access, via. the Internet, pre-funded.
accounts which can be‘used to transfer the electronic money: or value‘held in ‘those accounts to other
individuals or businesses ‘which also hold accounts with the same provider., The recipient then.
redeems the value from the issuer by making payments or withdrawing the funds. Withdrawals
০০০৮1 by transferring the funds to a.regular bank account, a prepaid card, or another money or’value
transfer service. While: typically customers hold funds in pre-paid accounts, customers are not:
required to do ‘so. When the account needs to be funded, this can happen. with a debit froma. bank.
account or payment card account, or supplied via another funding sourceas needed.
Many Internet-based payment services use a:variety of business models. These services are referred
to as digital wallets, digital currencies, virtual ‘currencies, or ‘electronic money: Internet- based
payment services can ‘vary significantly in their functionality, structure and. procedures. Services
may allow individuals to transfer to any individual or ‘business subscribed to the service, or they
may limit transactions to a particular merchant or online environment. Internet-based payment
services may also be interconnected with other:payment methods such as prepaid cards.
Another common form of Internet-based payment service is digital currency providers ‘that sell a
digital representation of precious metals online. These Service providers sell virtual gold of silver at.
market prices, claiming to hold actual. precious ‘metals on behalf of the customer.
Pre-funded accounts that consumers ‘use for online auction payments are among the most dominant
Internet-based ‘payment services. Recipients may or may not be required. to register with. the
payment service. provider to receive a. funds transfer. Customers may’ pre-fund an, Internet- based.
payment account using a regular bank account. The funds in the Internet-based payment account
can be used for transfers to other cuistomers. of the same ‘provider, or ‘transferred back’ to the
customer’s. regular bank account.
Internet-based payment services may also be associated with online gambling or virtual worlds for.
which only a proprietary form. of currency can be used to conduct transactions. Participants hold the
proxy currency.in an account, using the funds for transactions with the proprietor, other participants
০1160811015 in the closed online envitonment. Recipierits of the proprietary currency can exchange it
for their national currency on exiting: the environment.

166 [Page .

Module-G: Compliance
G.1. Concept of Compliance
In a general sense, compliance means abiding by a set of rules. AML/CET Comipliance: in the
financial sector refers to the compliance where the’ financial institution adheres to the applicable
rules, regulations. and instructions set out by: the regulatory bodies. This includes’ both country
specific laws and requirements from the regulatory authorities as well as internal company
directives. A range of tools and process can be implemented and. used by an institution to bring
about good. compliance. They.are designed ‘to ensure that misconduct or violations can. be detected,
prevented or resolved at an early stage; ahead of any serious consequences such as criminal
prosecution, fines or severe damage to a financial institution’s reputation. AML/CFT compliance,
when effectively implemented, mitigate the adverse effects of criminal economic activity and.
promote integrity and stability in financial markets.
FATF Sets standards and promotes. effective implementation of legal, regulatory and operational
measures for combating money laundering, terrorist financing and other related threats ‘to the
integrity of the international financial. system and urges the countries to comply with them. In line:
with those standards, in reviewing the ML/TF risk and threats, the countries set: AML/CFT related.
laws and regulations, establish AML/CFT mechanism. and. regulatory bodies to effectively combat.
the ML & TF.
G.2 Compliance Risk
Compliance risk is an. organization's potential exposure to legal penalties, financial forfeiture and
material loss, resulting from its failure to act in accordance with industry laws and regulations,
internal policies or prescribed. best: practices. Compliance:risk.is also known.as integrity risk.
Compliance with, the AML/CFT regulations, international standards; instructions of BFIU, the:
central agency to combat money laundering and. terrorist financing in Bangladesh, are very crucial
for the banking sector to safeguard the integrity of financial systems and their business. Failure to
comply ‘with these regulations can have severe consequences for individuals, businesses, and
financial institutions:raises non-compliance risk in this sector.
‘Non-compliance with AML and. CFT regulations carriés severe consequences for individuals,
businesses, and financial institutions. The legal, reputational, and financial repercussions can be
debilitating, jeopardizing the very existence of non-compliant entities. It is imperative for
organizations and individuals to understand and fulfil their obligations under these regulations to
mitigate the risks associated with non-compliance. Adhering to. AML and KYC requirements not
167 [Page .

only ensures legal and. ethical conduct but also helps maintain the integrity of the global financial
system. Potential compliance risks in the financial sector are described briefly below:

= Legal consequences
Banks found to be: failing to comply with AML.and CFT regulations are at risk of substantial legal.
repercussions. Governments worldwide have established stringent laws and penalties. to deter
money laundering and ensure transparency in financial transactions. Entities found in violation of
AML regulations may face hefty fines, civil or criminal charges, and reputational damage. In some
jurisdictions, individuals responsible for non-compliance could even face:imprisonment.

© Reputational damage
Failure to comply with AML, and CFT regulations can result.in severe reputational, damage for
businesses and individuals alike. In. today’s. interconnected world, news of non-compliance spreads
rapidly, eroding trust and confidence in the firm involved. The public, stakeholders, and clients
may ‘perceive non-compliant entities as. untrustworthy, leading to a loss of business relationships,
customers, and, opportunities..

‘2 Financial losses
‘Non-compliance can, lead to significant financial losses for businesses., Regulatory authorities. have
the power to impose substantial fines and penalties, often amounting to millions or even billions of.
dollars.. Such. financial burdens can strain the resources of organizations, leading to customer
retention. or acquisition issues, diminished ‘profitability, and, in extreme ০৪৪৩৪, bankruptcy.
Financial institutions may also face restrictions on their operations or be barred from certain
markets due to non-compliance.

2 Restricted access to financial services
AML and CFT regulations ‘require financial. institutions to adhere. to strict due diligence measures.
Failure to comply with these requirements can result in. restricted access to financial services,
including banking facilities, payment processing, and investment opportunities. Entities found to be
non-conipliant may face account closures, transaction limitations, or even being blacklisted by
other. financial institutions, effectively cutting them. off from the mainstream financial system.

৭ Jnternational sanctions:
‘Non-compliance with AML and CFT regulations can trigger international sanctions and.
restrictions. Global regulatory bodies actively collaborate across borders to combat money

168 | Page

laundering and terrorist financing, and, as such, entities found to be non-compliant may face
restrictions on cross-border transactions, freezes on assets, and limitations on trade activities. These.
sanctions ‘can have far-reaching effects on..an entity’s operations and ability to conduct. business
globally.
= Loss of regulatory trust and increased scrutiny

Persistent non-compliance with AML and. CFT regulations can result in a loss of trust from
regulatory bodies. This loss of trust.leads to increased scrutiny and monitoring by authorities, who
may impose stricter reporting requirements, audits, and. inspections. Financial institutions found to
have systemic non-compliance may be subject to enhanced. supervision, such. as on-site
examinations or the appointment of external auditors. This, heightened regulatory scrutiny can.
disrupt normal business operations and increase compliance costs.
G.2.1 Compliance Risk Management
Compliance risk:management 15: the process of identifying, assessing and mitigating potential losses
that may arise from an. financial institutions’ noncompliance with laws, regulations, standards, and,
both internal and external policies and procedures. It is a-continuous process that involves tracking
changes in the régulatory-environment:to ensure an organization's compliance is-up to date.
G.2.2 Identifying and Managing Compliance Risk
A key concept of compliance risk management is the risk assessment process, which includes
identifying and evaluating the potential risks that threaten an organization's ability to ensure it is
compliant with laws and regulations. Risk assessment can ‘include reviewing information sources,
such as reports from the institution’s management and from regulatory bodies, BFIU as, well as
identifying data and information that is already available to the organization.
Following a compliance risk assessment, a bank can determine its level of compliance: to reveal
what changes need to be made: for improyement. A bank: uses this information. to. create and
implement a compliance risk management strategy that helps ensure it is in. compliance with laws.
For example, the assessment might reveal that a bank requires to providing AML/CFT training to
its employee to raise awareness among them and for: better compliance with BFIU’s instruction.
Then they:can, address this weakness by arranging training programs for‘its employees.

169(Page

Six key steps to help banks adapt 16106 risk management to the ever-changing criminal
and.regulatory landscape
One, Conducta risk assessment based on the bank’s products, services, geographies and
clients to better understand the threat environment.
Two, Integrate the efforts of various disciplinés involved. in financial, crime prevention
across the organization to identify synergies and overlaps in people, processes and
technologies; this will help reduce redundancies .and streamline processes.
Three, Improve the availability ‘and quality of data to support real-time transaction
monitoring and advanced analytics.
Four, Apply advanced analytics to gain a holistic view of threats and the entities that cause
them; this will help uncover complex. and subtle threats, as: well as emerging ones, early and
effectively.
Five, Nurture a culture of high ethics and integrity by setting accountability ‘standards,
establishing controls and policies, working closely with regulators and increasing employee
awareness.
Six, Actively participate in ‘the industry-wide initiatives undertaken to. mitigate ‘risk and
improve compliance.
Source: Continzent, 2016
G.2.2.1 Assessing Risk-Risk Based Approach
The banks shall have to follow Risk Based Approach in. degerming and assessing compliance risk.
Every bank shall assess its risk relating to money’ laundering and terrorist financing periodically
following the instruction of ‘ML/TF Risk Assessment Guidelines’ for Banking Sector’ issued by
BFIU. Nature of business, customer, product or service, country and geographical position etc.
shall be considered at the time assessing such risk. The aforesaid Risk Assessment Report shall be
used in preveriting money laundering and terrorist financing. risk-of the bank.
Bank shall have. to:take. Enhanced. Due Diligence (EDD) measures for high risk. identified in. the
Risk Assessment Report:on money latindering, terrorist and ‘terrorist financing.
Bank: can take Simplified Due Diligence (SDD). measures for low risk or similar indicator of low
risk identified in-the Risk Assessment Report on-money laundering, terrorist and terrorist financing.
170 [Page .

Every bank shall take. necessary Due. Diligence measures. in line with the risk, importance: and
rélevance of éxisting customer. Apart from this, bank. shall fix. the time fortaking or reviewing Due
Diligence measures for existing customer considering the time when the Due Diligence measures
was taken and, what-kind of or what amount of information. was collected previously.
3.2.2 Various Sub Ris |
G.2.3 Assessing Inherent and Residual Risk
G.2.3.1 What is Inherent Risk?
Inherent risk is the level of risk associated with a product, customer, channel, or country without.
anymitigation controls in place. This means that inherent risk is the level of tisk. any organization
faces if does not implement.any measures to prevent:money laundering and terrorism financing:
The inherent risk is determined based on various factors, such as the natute of the product’ or
service the organization offer, customer's, background, the channel used to deliver the product or
service, and the country of origin. By ‘assessing these factors, the organization can determine the
level of risk: associated with each area of the ‘business and develop appropriate risk mitigation.
measures. For example, if any bank offers a high-value loan. product, this may pose a higher
inherent risk of money laundering than, a low-value savings account. Similarly, customers’ from.
high-risk jurisdictions or with ‘a, history of financial crimes pose.a higher inherent: risk than those
with.a clean financial record.
Understanding inherent risk is crucial for developing effective risk mitigation, measures to prevent
financial crimes. By identifying the level. of. inherent risk associated with each area of the business,
the reporting. organization need to implement appropriate measures to manage those. risks
effectively: This will help the business’ from. being exploited by criminals and comply with
regulatory requirements.
G.2.3.1.1 Mitigation Controls for Inherent Risk
Mitigation controls are an essential part of an effective ML/TF risk management:program. They. are:
measures that. an RO need to: implement to reduce the risk of money laundering ‘and terrorism.
financing in. its. business or organization. Mitigation controls are policies, procedures, and systems
designed.to detect and prevent financial crimes. Theré are several-types of mitigation. controls. Here
are some examples:

171[Page

০. Know Your Customer (KYC) procedures: This involves verifying the identity:of customers
and understanding their business. activities to assess the potential for money laundering or
terrorism financing.

¢ Enhanced due diligence: This involves collecting more detailed information about high-risk.
customers or transactions to assess. their ‘potential for money laundering or terrorism.
financing.

e ‘Transaction monitoring: This. involves reviewing transactions for stispicious activity and.
unusual patterns, such as large or frequent transactions.

« Staff training: This involves educating staff on the risks associated. with money laundering
and terrorism. financing, as well:as how to identify and report suspicious activity.

e Customer screening involves screening customers against sanctions lists and other databases
to identify any links to‘money laundering or terrorism financing.

Implementing these: types of mitigation controls can help reducing the risk of money laundering
and terrorism financing in your business or organization. They can also help to comply with
regulatory requirements and protect your reputation. Regular review and updating of the mitigation
controls need to be ensured so that they remain effective and up-to-date with any changes in
businéss or industry.
G.2.3.2 What is residual risk?
Residual risk is the level of risk that remains after ‘implementing mitigation controls. It is. calculated
by subtracting the effectiveness of the mitigation controls from the inherent risk. This means’ that
residual risk is the level of risk that an organization is’ willing to accept after putting in place
measures to prevent money laundering and terrorism financing.
Thus, a classic residual risk formula’might look something like this:
[Rea =a Hae THK HHT

As an example, consider a risk analysis of a ransomware outbreak in a specific business unit. The
organization concludes that, in a perfect: storm scenario, the inherent risk associated with the:
outbreak -- i.e., the risk. present without any controls or other countermeasures applied. or
implemented -- could be $5 million. With new malware: detection and. prevention controls,. as well
as an additional. emphasis on backups and redundancy, the organization estimates that recovery
from. ransomware: is possible in almost all cases without paying .a ransom and waiting for’
decryption. The cost.of all solutions and controls is $3 million.
The residual risk formula would then look like this:

172 [Page .

Residual risk = $5 million (inherent risk) - $3 million (impact of:risk controls)
In, this case, the residual, or leftover, risk.is roughly $2 million.
Calculating residual risk is essential for determining whether the mitigation controls. that have:
implemented are effective. If the residual risk is too high, the organization needs. to implement
additional mitigation controls or adjust the existing controls to reduce the level of risk.
For example, ‘if the inherent risk associated with a high-value loan product is high, then a,bank may
implement enhanced due diligence and transaction monitoring as mitigation controls. After
implementing these controls, the bank needs to calculate the residual risk and. find that it. is still,
high. This may indicate that the bank’s mitigation controls are not effective enough, and it needs to
implement additional measures to manage the risk effectively.
G.2.3.2.1 Managing Residual Risk
For any-residual risk present, organizations can do the following:

e Nothing. Assuming the residual risk is below the acceptable: level of risk in any endeavor,
organizations can simply accept that the implemented controls have proven effective
enough to reduce the risk to an acceptable level.

« ‘Update or increase controls implemented. In the case: that residual ‘risk is still above an
acceptable tisk level, new or modified controls and. processes may be needed. to reduce the
inherént:risk: to a level that is deemed acceptable.

e Evaluate controls vs. mitigation costs to make a decision. In the case where the residual.
risk is still beyond. the. acceptable: level of risk: and the: cost of the needed controls and.
countermeasures ‘is too high, organizations may need to accept the risk, regardless of what
residual risk remains.

In. general, when addressing residual risk, organizations should follow the following. steps:

1. Identify relevant governance, ML.& TF risk and AML/CFT compliance requirements

2. Determine the strengths and weaknesses of the organization's AML/CFT compliance and.
internal control :framework.

3. Acknowledge existing risks.

4. Define the organization's risk appetite.

5. Identify available options for offsetting unacceptable:residual risks.

173 (Page

G.3 Compliance Policies and. Governance.

The Compliance. Policy aims at managing compliance risk and also oversees its implementation.
besides. ensuring that compliance issues are resolved effectively and expeditiously’ with the
assistance of compliance Committee. and Compliance: Officers. Each bank ‘shall. have a compliance
policy in place approved by the board of directors (BOD) The main, objective of a. bank’s
compliance policy. should cover-

০ To introduce, standards and procedures relating to compliance functions, which. are in line
with international and national practices.

2 To'propagate Compliance Function as an. integral part of Governance, Internal Control and.
‘Risk_Management Process.

« To enlighten all constituents for initiating preventive measures for mitigating compliance
risk. To ‘prevent Material Financial Loss or Loss to: Reputation, which Bank may suffer
owing to failure to comply with. Laws, Regulations, Rules, Relating to Regulatory
Organizations; Standards and Code of Conducts applicable to Banking Activity:

দ ‘To Frame bank-wide compliance functions, which would. help Senior Management 9170 the
Board of Directors in recognizing the legal, and reputation risks in the Bank which required.
to be monitored for mitigating compliance risk.

= To introduce :a healthy compliance culture ‘within the organization so ‘that’ compliance
functions are.effectively complied with.

The compliance function is an integral part of governance of a bank in consonance with the internal
control. The significance of compliance function lies in identifying, evaluating and addressing legal
and reputational risks. It has to ensure strict observance of all statutory guidelines issued by BFIU
and. Bangladesh Bank.

G.3.1 Regulatory Compliance:

Regulatory compliance describes the goal that..an institution aspires to achieve in their efforts to
ensure: that they are aware of and.take steps to comply with relevant laws, policies, and regulations.
Due to the: increasing: number of regulations and need for operational transparency, organizations
are increasingly adopting the use of consolidated.and harmonized sets of compliance controls.

On the initiative of BFIU, self-assessment and independent testing procedure: system were:
introduced for banks to assess ‘their own AML/CFT compliance. Side by side, Bangladesh Bank’
(BB) has also been monitoring the same through the process called system check inspection.
1TH Page

As per the instruction of the BB, banks: must have-a risk management unit to take care of different
risks of the banking operation. Various :risk related guidelines are available in Bangladesh that
includes discussion on. issues related to risk. management especially operational risk management.
in banks.. These guidelines are. mostly ‘issued, by Bangladesh Bank. Some of the guidelines are:
Internal, Control and Compliance (ICC), Self-Assessment of Anti-fraud Internal Controls, Guidance
Noté on Prevention of Money Laundering, Risk Management Guidelines -for Banks, Guideline on.
ICT Security, Guideline on Risk Based Capital Adequacy (RBCA), Credit Risk Management
Guideline, Foreign Exchange Risk Management Guideline, Asset Liability Risk Management:
Guideline, Guidelines on Mobile Financial Services, Note Refund Regulations, Bank Deposit.
Insurance: Scheme, etc. The objectives of these. guidelines are to protect various internal and
external ‘frauds, to prevent different financial. crime related to credit, foreign exchange, money
laundering, IT’ security etc. Security of Information for banks has’ gained much importance and it
is vital now to ensure that the risks are properly identified. and managed. As noted by the BB, the:
guideline on.ICT Security is to be used as a minimum requirement and.as appropriate to the level of
technology adoption.of their operations.

G.3.2 Self-Assessment and. Independent Testing Procedure (ITP)

With the goal of establishing an effective. mechanism. to prevent money: laundering and terrorist

financing, the Internal Audit Department. of the bank has to be equipped with manpower who have

sound knowledge on analyzing self-assessment: reports. received from branches and completing
independent testing properly.
দ ‘Responsibilities of the Branches

1) Every branch shall evaluate: itself on half yearly basis based on the specified checklist for Self-
Assessment as provided by BFIU.

2) Before finalizing. the evaluation report, a meeting chaired by branch manager ‘shall be
conducted with the relevant officials. In that meeting, there shall be.a discussion on. the draft. of
branch evaluation report and if the issues identified accordingly cannot be resolved. at branch
level, it should be noted in the report and sent it to Internal. Audit Department and Anti Money’
Laundering: and Terrorist Financing Department to resolve them: and the progress of the
recommendations for resolving the issues sent to Head Office shall be discussed in next
quarterly meeting.
© Responsibilities of Internal Audit Department:

1) Internal Audit Department shall. verify the Branch Evaluation Reports and. it shall arrange an
inspection to the branch immediately if any risky issue is observed in any branch; and shall
inform Anti Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Department of this matter;

2) Internal Audit Department shall examine anti-money laundering and terrorist financing matters
of the branch based. on the specified checklist provided by BFIU for Independent Testing,
Procedures while conducting inspection/audit in different branches according to its own regular

175 [Page

annual inspection/audit. schedule; then it shall send a report determining its: rating to the
concerned branch. In, addition to regular annual. inspection/audit programs, Internal Audit.
Department shall conduct a.separate inspection in at. least. 10% (ten percent) of the branches and
examine anti money laundering and terrorist financing compliance issues of that branches based
on the specified checklist for Independent Testing Procedures and shall formulate a report of
the respective branch including its rating;

3) The Internal Audit Depattment shall send the copy of the report including rating of the
inspected/audited. branches to the Anti Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Department;
and

4) Incase of the bank involved in agent banking business, Internal. Audit Department shall conduct
an inspection/audit on at least. 5% (five percent) of the agents on yearly basis to review the
compliance status of anti-money laundering and terrorist financing*issues of the agents and shall
send a-copy of the report'to Anti Money Laundering-and Terrorist.Financing Department.

'দ ~Responsibilities of Anti Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Department:

1) Based on the self-assessment :report received from. branches ‘and inspection/audit: reports
submitted, by Internal Audit Department, Anti Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing
Department shall prepare a checklist-based evaluation report on the branches audited in that
quarter. The report shall contain the following mandatory matters along with other issues:

(a) Total number of branches and. total number of self-assessment reports received from
branches;

(b) Number of branches inspected/audited by Internal Audit Department and the
compliance status of the branch. (based.on the score received);

(c) The report shall contain the measures taken by Anti Money Laundering and Terrorist:
Einancing Department to prevent ‘the irregularities mentioned in, self-assessment. reports.
that are similar in nature in many branches;

(d) The report shall contain the general and exceptional ittegularities described in the report
submitted by Internal Audit Department and the measures taken, by Anti Money
Laundering and Terrorist Financing Department to prevent'those irregularities; and

(9) The report shall contain the measures taken to ensure Compliance atid improve rating of
branches. that. are evaluated as “Unsatisfactory” and “Marginal” in the report received.

2) If any risky issue. is- identified. in any branches after verifying the Self-Assessment Report:
received from branches then Anti Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Department shall.
visit:the branch immediately or arrange inspection through Internal Audit Department and bring
this matter’to the attention of appropriate authority.

176 | Page |

G.3.3 Independence of Compliance.Function

Each ‘and every. bank of the country has an ICC department responsible for overseeing,
internal audit, monitoring and compliance issues, as required by the rules issued by the BB.
Ensuring the. Operational Independence of. ICCD. and internal audit function is crucial for
preventing financial crime in the banks.

In BFIU Circular 26, the ICCD of the bank has been, provided with the responsibility of
conducting Independent Testing Procedures: (ITP) to assess and rate the AML/CFT compliance

of the branches. That’s ‘why internal audit is supposed ‘to be independent, and free from. other
units of the bank especially the Anti Money Laundering Department (AMLD). Internal audit:
will act independently without. being influenced by the Management.

G.3.2 Role of Senior Management.

Every bank must have its own policy manual that must conform to international standards, laws and.
regulations in force in Bangladesh and instructions issued by Bangladesh. Financial Intelligence
Unit (BEIU) on preventitig money laundering and terrorist financing; and that. policy manual :must.
be approved by its Board of Directors or if necessary; by the topmost| Management Committee.
Bank shall bring this policy manual ‘to the knowledge of all concerned persons and take necessary
initiatives to implement it. As ‘part of its own risk management, Bank shall also review: this policy
manual time to time.and shall amend/retouch, if necessary.

Furthermore, in recognition of the various aspects of the Bank’s compliance risk, the Board. will
approve and annually review the bank’s own compliance, policy: It will ensure that an appropriate:
compliance policy is always in place to manage compliance risk and also oversee its
implementation. Compliance failures if deemed necessary will be placed through the ACB. and.
appropriate remedial measures will be taken. A detailed annual. review will be placed to the Board
through the internal audit. department of the bank by: Anti Money Laundering Department. It will
also ensure that compliance issues ‘are resolved effectively:and expeditiously by. senior management.
with the assistance of compliance staff.
TT Page

References:

01. Sebastin Billot, Financial Crime Compliance

02. Kevin Sullivan, Anti Money Laundering in a Nutshell

03. John A Cassara, Money laundering and_Illicit Financial Flows

04. Jonathan E. Turner, Money Laundering Prevention,

05. Nkechikwu Valerie Azinge Egbriri, Regulating and Combating Money Laundering

and Terrorist Financing

06. Patrick Kabamba, Know Your Customer Policy

07. Jonathan E. Turner, Policing Financial Crime: Intelligence Strategy Implementation

08. ML & TF Risk Assessment Guideline for Banks

09. Guidance Notes on Prevention.of Money Laundering for Banks

10. Guideline on implementation of UNSCR.

11. Guideline on Beneficial Owner

12. Guidelines on STR

13. Guidance notes on PEPs

14. Guidance notes for prevention of TF & PF

15. Guideline for prevention of TBML

16. Guideline for:e-K YC

17. Money Laundering Prevention Act,.2012

18. Money Laundering Prevention Rules, 2019

19. Anti Terrorism.Act, 2009

20. Anti Terrorism.Rules, 2013.

21. BFIU Circular and Circular Letters.

22. FATF Recommendations, Guidance Notes and Typology Reports
8 [Page

Sample Question

17 What is financial crime? Which are the. main stakeholders of countering financial crimes in.
Bangladesh?

2) What is money laundering? Define:money laundering as per MLPA, 2012.

3) A government employee named Mr. X took 50 lac BDT as bribe from a person in exchange:
of providing service. Then he kept 25 lac BDT ina safe place of his house and gave'the rest;
to his brother in law, Mr."Y deposited the money in his own bank account in. the bank: HP
Bank Ltd.

a. Is it falls under money laundering? Give reason for'your answer.
৮: In the above scenario, ‘who will be charged for money laundering and why?
c. What due diligence measures should. be taken by the bank HP Bank Ltd?

4) What are the stages of money laundering? Explain with example.

5) What..is smuggling of money or asset? Elaborate your answer in line with MLPA, 2012.
What is the difference between smuggling of:moriey or asset with money laundering?

6) What-.is predicate offence? Which agencies are empowered to investigate money laundering’
cases?

7) What is BFIU? What are the main.functions and responsibilities of BFIU?

8) Write down. the penalty provision for tipping off and providing: false information to BFIU
by a Reporting Organization (RO).

9) What is FATF? Write down 10 'FATF recommendations. What do you understand. by non-
cooperative countries and territories (NCCTs)?

10) What is APG? What Egmont Group? What are their functions in AML/CFT?

11) Write down the structure of Central and Divisional Taskforce.

12) What is credit backed money laundering? What measures a bank may. take to prevent credit
backed money laundering?

13) What is Trade Based Money laundering? Write: down. some methods of trade-based money
laundering.

14) What. is AML/CFT compliance? How an AML/CFT compliance structure of a bank should
look like? Provide your answer in light with BFIU. circular-26.

15) What is themecessity to establish an effective AML/CFT compliance structure in a bank?

16) What/who is BAMLCO? Write down the responsibilities of a branch regarding AML/CFT
issues.

17) What ts risk.assessment? How an.AML/CFT risk management of.a bank:should be?

18) What are the Key Challenges and Difficulties in Preventing Trade Based Money Laundering
in Bangladesh?

179 [Page

19)131508835 briefly about the trade based money laundering risk. assessment and mitigation.
‘mechanism in a bank.

20) How a. bank may assess the TBML isk associated with.customer?

21) Write down the roles. and responsibilities. of bank during Transaction Level TBML Risk.
Assessment & Mitigation through 3 Level Review System.

22) What is vessel tracking? How a bank can mitigate risk of TBML through sanction
screening?

23) What. is FATF ‘grey list’ and ‘black. list’?

24) Who are customers? What KYC procedures need to take during on boarding a customer or
‘providing banking service?

25) What is customer due diligence? Elaborate your answer with example. When.a bank need to
conduct customer due diligence?

26) What. is PEPs and, IPs? What measures should a bank: need to take for business relationship
with PEPs or IPs?

27) What is SDD? What CDD measures need to take. for the following occasional, transaction?
(a) below 50.00 thousand,

(b) above 50.00 thousand but below 5.00 lac BDT
(a) above 5.00 lac BDT.

28) Who are beneficial owners? What measures a bank need to take ifMwhen CDD cannot be
performed?

29) What is Suspicious. Transaction? Elaborate your answer in line with the definition ‘provided,
in MLPA 2012 and ATA, 2009.

30) What is STR. and SAR? How a bank can identify STR and SAR? Elaborate the process of
identifying STR and SAR.

31) What is transaction monitoring? How transaction monitoring’ can help to identify STR?

32) What is CTR?

33) What is self assessment and independent testing procedures (ITP)? Write down the roles
and responsibilities of the branch, the AML/CFT division and the Internal Audit
‘Department ofa bank.in carrying out self assessment and ITP?

34) What is sanction? What are the impact;and implications of sanction in the banking industry:?

35) What mitigations measures should a barik have to take to avoid the impact of sanction?

36) What ‘is the relation between corruption and money: laundering? Write down. the
vulnerabilitiés of e-commerce sites in money laundering.

37) Why the new payment'methods are very prone to ‘money laundering: Explain with example:

38) What is compliance and compliance risk in a bank? How’ banks manage compliance risk?

180 [Page

39) What are the main responsibilities of. Reporting Organization (ROs) as delineated:in MLPA,
2012 and ATA, 2009?
181 [Page