=== Advanced OCR Text Extraction Result ===
Original File: financial_literacy_guidelines_10.pdf
Extraction Method: Image-based OCR (pypdfium2 + Tesseract)
Language: bn+en
Extracted Characters: 16190
Processing Date: 2025-08-28 15:44:22
============================================================

Financial Literacy Guidelines
(Striving fora Financially Literate Society)
Draft 1
Financial Inclusion Department
Bangladesh Bank
Head Office, Dhaka
February 2021

৮০০ ও
3. Strategic FOCUS সম রোম না নমন্ম্্ডমমণ7ন ্জদন'
3.1. Key FOCUS. Areas ১১১৬৬১১১২১১ ১১ ১১১০১১২১১১১ ১১১১১১১১১১১ ১১ কনক. ক ডন |,
3.2. Target Group ছু কসত ৬২৮৬ জর ডাচ ক ৬২ ২ড ৪৪৪ রজত হাতত যত ত৬ ৪ ২ ৪ তথডড ৪১ ৫৬ ডর হা রড ডডাযত ২ ক ৪২ ৬ ভালত তা ডড ৬২ ৪৬৪ ১৬৪১৬৮০৬৪১০ ৪ ৬০২২২ ২+১২ততত
3.3. Strategic 40001708610, ০০ ১১১২০৬০০৬০৬ ১৬৬৬ ৬৬এতত শত তজড তত ক ততত তত তত ৬ তলত তত এক আল তল লা ক ১ ১১২ ১ ৯
3.4. Action Planiic..ccccceccoccccsessccnccescescsccscescesseerscetecenecssseseeeaeeuaeesecscceasensesuseguscesesesserasetacenesseed
4. Implementation Plane... মম
A.1, Tmplementation Structures... ccesesessesesesnesessesssessessssenessseessseetessssensseenesesesesssseserese O
4.2. Phases of Implementation উল cease eeestctcedensedesestaescessteterandvecavrene 7
5. Monitoring and Reporting cccccccccecescsessossessesessceseccescveveversecsvenesesescieruessssteatevaceveveseseeteneeD
5.1. MOmitoringscesscsensseesenseereseesecsevensanenesesugaesetesseanenenssneserneneasaueaeneenensassacsesneneeteneasaneeD
5.2. ০ সম না ্্্্্্জাোলাোদোাবেঢনোদোর
০ - সমমমনননমেেোোলোনমদেদদেলোদদনেেবেবেবেেকেেরে lO
6.1. Risk Mitigation wc ccsccccseevicecscesesectovencnedsidesscesdotcecisaesssuvesebeceausaattestasiaassacvteveesiess LO
6.2. Right’'to Amend মলোলাাদাে ্ ্্মমম ্্্জলদালার dl O
‘Financial Literacy Guidelines | Draft: 1

1. ‘Rationale:

Financial inclusion is considered. as one of the most significant ‘policy areas. to achieve
inclusive and. sustainable economic development. To achieve this broader objective,
Bangladesh Bank (BB) has been undertaking innovative and effective initiatives ‘to bring the
financially excluded people under the umbrella. of formal financial services. As part of 01696.
initiatives, BB has been promoting multi-faceted and.affordable. alternative delivery channels,
customized services for marginal and specialized segments; financial literacy. and consumer
empowerment programs and policy interventions to make ‘formal financial services available
at the doorsteps of the mass people.

Financial literacy of the citizen is a prerequisite: to 11819 a sustainable ‘financial. inclusion.
With.a view’to making’ financial inclusion.initiatives more successful; BB, has already taken 3
number of initiatives. A. basic interactive. web portal for financial literacy has been hosted in.
the internet containing literacy documents on different financial issues and services. Several
television commercials, radio. broadcasting commercials, advertisements in the newspaper,
flyers, pamphlets, leaflets, video. documentary have been. made and released for building.
public awareness on financial. literacy. In. addition, BB arranges different financial awareness
campaign such as open credit disbursement; program, awareness raising campaign under
different schemes and projects, special fairs such. as Banking Fair, SME Fair, Women
Entrepreneur Fair etc.

As a priority: focus, BB has identified "Strengthen financial education. & financial literacy
initiatives’ as an important core objective in ‘the Strategic Plan. for 2020-2024. As per the goal
no: 4 of the SDGs', it is ‘required to ensure financial literacy for all, which, is also
incorporated in the draft National Financial Inclusion Strategy of Bangladesh (NFIS-B). One
of the goals. .of NFIS-B is mandated for ‘Promoting Financial Literacy: and Consumer
Empowerment’. A study paper” by BB finds that inadequate financial literacy is one of the
major obstacles in access.'to finance in Bangladesh. Due to low level of financial. literacy
‘among the rural ‘people, they are not aware of the' available financial services in the market,
which is causing inefficient use of the services. Also, during COVID-19: pandemic situation,
where physical visit of financial service providers is discouraged, the digital financial
'The:Sustainable. Development Goals:(SDGs) consists.of 17 goals which have been.designed to:“‘achieve a
better‘and.:more-sustainable future: for all”.

*Survey on.Impact Analysis of Access to Finance in.Bangladesh’, July 2019, Pg-33.
https://www:bb.org.bd/pub/research/sp_research_work/srw1903.pdf° ;
Financial Literacy Guidelines | Draft 1

services, can be a 81980790100 make the transactions online. The literacy on digital financial
services may help people to know about online mode of transaction procedures,
Providers of financial services will also be benefitted from. the spread. of financial. inclusion
and financial literacy, as it ‘would help them to capture the untapped business opportunities.
Hence, banks, must view the financial, literacy initiatives as their future investments. BB, as a
financial, sector regulator, is committed to provide the:necessary policy interventions to drive
future developments. in financial inclusion and will work: in close coordination and,
engagement with institutional actors, to build awareness on their role to foster and. promote
financial inclusion. With this backdrop, BB is formulating this: ‘Financial Literacy
Guidelines’ to increase public awareness. and, financial literacy among the mass people of the:
country.
These guidelines are made exercising the powers. conferred to. Bangladesh Bank in, Section 45
of the Bank-Company Act, 1991 (Act no. .XTV of 1991).
2: Objectives:
To achieve and sustain inclusive growth of the economy, these guidelines will provide
guidance to create an empowered. nation with. right knowledge and skills for making
responsible financial decisions. The objectives of these: guidelines are:

2.1. To strengthen. financial literacy, reduce knowledge gap and promote responsible

financial behaviors in, the society;
2.2. To foster positive attitude of people towards financial’ management;
2.3. To raise awarenéss among users to prevent financial fraid; reduce associated. risk,
and enhance consumer protection;
2.4. To establish financial literacy infrastructure at the national and local level to spread
financial literacy program;
2.5. To ensure delivery of effective financial literacy contents based on the needs. of
different target groups;
2.6. To adopt appropriate tools to monitor and. evaluate effectiveness of financial literacy
policies;

3.1. Key Focus Areas

Following key. focus areas on financial. literacy will help to attain the strategic: goals of

‘these guidelines:

3.1.1. Savings, borrowing and financial planning
3.1.2. Financial. Product:and access to financial services

Financial Literacy Guidelines | Draft 1

3.1.3. Entrepreneurship
3.1.4. Financial system.and participants
3.1.5. Payment system and Digital Transformation
3.1.6. Grievance redress ‘system and consumer protection.
3.2. Target Group
Identifying target population. is essential in order to implement the strategic approaches
rapidly and achieve intended level of financial. literacy in. the society. This. will help to
choose: suitable. strategic approaches considering needs of different target groups. The
following target groups can be considered (not limited to):
1. Small Entrepreneur
ii. Un-served & underserved people
dil. Women
iv. Farmers
yy. ‘Micro-merchants
Vi. Students
vil. Youth
vil, | Working adults
ix.. ‘Working children ‘and street urchin
X. Senior Citizen
xi. .RMG workers
মা, Migrant workers.
xiii. Others
3.3. Strategic Approach
This is a multi-stakeholder approach where Bangladesh Bank will be in lead role in
guiding and coordinating financial literacy. initiatives. while other stakeholders are
required to play the designated roles.
3.4, Action Plan
Four core-actions ‘will help to deliver: financial literacy to the target groups. These: core:
actions are:
3.4.1. Content: Develop financial literacy:contents for different target: groups.
3.4.2. Capacity: Enhance capacity of ‘target groups as well as financial literacy
providers.
Financial Literacy Guidelines|Draft! = 73865

3.4.3. Communication: Use innovative and. appropriate medium, (technology,
channels, ‘places: etc.) to provide financial literacy in an efficient and timely
manner.

3.4.4. Collaboration: Collaborate with other ‘stakeholders to streamline the financial
literacy programs.

‘4: Implementation'Plan.
4. L Implementation Structure:

4.1.1. These guidelines will ‘be implemented through following financial sector
participants regulated by BB, hereinafter termed as Financial Literacy Provider
(FLP):

1. Scheduled Banks
ii. Mobile Financial Services Operators

4.1.2. BB shall actively participate in various financial literacy:activities.

4.1.3. FLPs shall 56000 a “Financial Literacy Cell” in their-respective head offices td

4.1.4. [Financial Literacy Cell_of respective FLPs shall be’ responsible to make a
‘yearly plan for conducting financial literacy programs primarily at district level
and shall implerient the same by involving: branchés/unit offices of the relevant
of these guidelines]
branch/unit level. Trainers/resource persons shall responsible ‘to. conduct the

4.1.7. Financial Literacy Cell of FLPs or its respective-local representative(s) will be
responsible to collaborate with relevant government/private agencies, if

4.1.8. FLPs shall continuously engage with social, electronic, and ‘print media to
disseminate financial literacy-related knowledge. In their websites, they should
have a separate tab naming ‘Financial Literacy’ under which learning materials:
shall be stored for citizens ‘to explore.

Financial Literacy Guidelines|Draft! = = = Pageé

4.2. Phases of Implementation
4.2.1. Short-Term: Short-term strategies here imply initiatives undertaken by FLPs:
that could’bring immediate changes in knowledge; skill, ‘ability, and behaviors of
the end-user. Following is a list, but not limited to, of short-term. strategies. to
attain, a. desirable level of changes in the financial. literacy: landscape of the
country:
4.2.1.1. Financial Literacy Programs: FLPs shall conduct financial literacy:
programs about overall financial services available as per the plan set. in
section. 4.1.4 To ensure maximum. attendance, prior announcement should
be. made in that area highlighting the purposé:and necessity of the Program.
It is advisable to include the celebrities/reputed persons like representative.
of the local people; school teachers or ‘respected popular persons of ‘the
area. FLPs shall conduct at least.4 programs in.a year.
4.2.1.2. Target group-based initiatives: FLPs shall take customized ‘initiatives. to
address the financial literacy needs of the target groups as set-in section 3.2.
at least once in a year covering each target. groups. Financial literacy
programs for different target groups can be arranged ‘separately 01 in a
single program.
4.2.1.3. Half yearly thematic campaign: BB shall announce semi-annual theme for
campaign (digital payment, e-banking, money laundering, saving, etc.) and
FLPs shall develop contents (banner, ‘poster; info-graphic, leaflet, slogan
etc) and disseminate the thematic message through various communication
channels.
4.2.1.4. Others: Essay compétition for students, street dramia, simulation game etc.
4.2.2. Long-Term: Long-term strategies are aimed to develop a necessary
infrastructure to provide: financial literacy as a life skill to every citizen.
Following is alist, but not limited to, of long-term. strategies:
4.2.2.1. BB shall work with concerned authorities to include financial literacy
contents: in the national curriculum.
4.2.2.2. BB or FLPs may introduce module based certificate course on
financial literacy on different platforms.
4.2.2.3. FLPs shall review and update financial literacy contents and strategies
on 4:1০80181 basis.
Financial Literacy Guidelines|Draft] = | Page7

4.2.2:4. BB shall conduct, with the help of FLPs, Bangladesh Financial
Inclusion & Financial Literacy Survey by adopting appropriate toolkit at a
regular interval.

4,2.3.. Communication Tools: Financial literacy requires a wide variety of tools
considering the needs of different age groups and. education level to get effective
results from the initiatives undertaken. It is important. to note that, while
implementing financial literacy activities ELPs should not: highlight: their own
products or mode of business, but focus. on generic: financial products/services.
The following list.consists, but not limited to, of tools that can. be used:

i. ‘Training Booklet
ii. Leaflet, Brochure, Banner &.Poster
iii. Présentation
iv. Financial Diary, Financial Comics &. Stories
v. Simulation Game
vi. Smartphone application
vii. Advertisement (Audio-visual)
viii. Instructional. Video/ Info-graphics
ix, -Others
4.2.4. Communication Approaches:
4.2.4.1. Target group based Modules: ELPs should develop target specific
modules for effective dissemination of financial literacy. While developing
the modules real life examples can. be incorporated ‘to give easy and lasting
impression on audiences’ mind.
4.2.4.2. Language & application of tools: The language and-tools of delivery of
financial, literacy should be appealing to the target groups in an
understandable ‘manner.
4.2.4.3. | Usage of Media: FLPs shall consider multi-media channels which are
well-accepted by target audience. For example. social media, television,
radio, audio-visuals, digital vans, digital display, kiosks, newspaper etc can
be considered to serve-this purpose:
4.2.4.4. Learning through Simulation: FLPs are adviséd to use simulation
system to familiarize. participants with various banking services (money
transfer, e-banking, account opening, digital payments, ATM. operation,
grievance redress etc).
Financial Literacy Guidelines|Draftl Page&

4.2.4.5. Digital Transformation in Financial Sector: Emphasis should be given
to financial literacy initiatives related to the appropriate target. group to
expedite the digital transformation in the financial landscape of
Bangladesh. The focused area to fulfill this agenda will be cashless
banking, cashless payment environment, e-banking, ‘mobile banking,
mobile financial services, Fintech and Techfin, etc.

4.2.4.6. Grievance Redress: The ELPs: shall aware the target audience
regarding gtievarice redress mechanism of their institution. They should
also. inform. the audience about Customers’ Interest Protection Center
(CIPC, hotline-16236) of BB. However, the aim is not to address and
resolve any complain from the audience during financial literacy program,
rather inform the audietice about the complaining mechanism.

‘5: ‘Monitoring and Reporting
5.1. Monitoring

5.1.1. Head. office of each FLPs will track progress and quality of the literacy
programs undertaken by them. Head office will conduct ‘regular visit. at the
training sites. It will also measure the performance of the program and take
appropriate measures to ensure achievement of intended. objectives of the
program.

5.1.2. Head. office of each FLPs should. collect. and, preserve the information of the
conducted financial literacy program.

5.1.3. BB will visit the head office or any other training sites, if it deems necessary,
of the FLPs from time to time to ensure proper implementation of the guidelines
and to assess progress in achieving the objectives.

5.2. Reporting
FLPs shall send Financial Literacy Program Implementation Report: on. semi-annually
basis. to Financial Inclusion Department of Bangladesh Bank within 15 days after
completion of each period. FLPs will have to publish. the up-to-date information of
financial literacy Program in its annual report and website.

Financial Literacy Guidelines|Draftl = = = Paged

‘6: :01]61-5
6.1. Risk Mitigation
Stakeholders shall take appropriate measures to mitigate various :risks originated from
limited resources, coordination between plethora of stakeholders, incompatible
institutional framework, insufficient'technical skill, and other factors.
6.2. Right to Amend
Bangladesh Bank reserves the:right to amend, extend and modify any or every part of this
policy to adopt, if it feels necessary, national or BB’s strategies, international good.
‘practices, and recommendations. Bangladesh Bank will issue directions in this regard.as.
and when necessary.

Financial Literacy Guidelines | Draft 1