=== Advanced OCR Text Extraction Result ===
Original File: Tax Palnning & Compliance Manual_472.pdf
Extraction Method: Image-based OCR (pypdfium2 + Tesseract)
Language: bn+en
Extracted Characters: 1057208
Processing Date: 2025-08-28 16:21:40
============================================================

The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh (ICAB)
STUDY MANUAL
(COVERING THE NEW INCOME TAX ACT, 2023 & FINANCE ACT, 2023).
CA Professional Level
(Direct Tax - Portion)
PARTNER IN LEARNING
Page | 1

Tax Planning & Compliance
Professional Level
The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh (ICAB)
The Study materials have been prepared by the Education and Student Affairs Division of the Institute of
Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh (ICAB)
> 1*edition: September, 2018
> 2” edition: October, 2019
> 3" edition: December, 2020
> 4" edition: September, 2021
> 5" edition: September, 2022
> 6" edition: September, 2023
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be reproduced in any form or by any means: or
‘stored in any retrieval system, or transmitted in, any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical,
photocopying, recording or-otherwise. without prior permission of the publisher.
Page | 2

বু ১ In BANGLADESH | দিদা ChANGIADESH
FOREWORD
| am delighted to know that ICAB is going to publish a Study Manual on Tax Planning &
Compliance for our Professional Level students. This Study Manual contains updated
Income Tax, Value Added Tax and Customs law with required examples/ illustrations
necessary for better understanding of the amendments made in the laws since publication of
the last manual. Students will get this updated manual with changes. of relevant laws/rules
readily available to enhance their knowledge to sit 01079 examinations.
It also gives me immense pleasure that this updated manual incorporating the changes in tax
laws covering the new Income Tax Act, 2023, Finance Act, 2023, Value Added Tax and
Supplementary Duty Act, 2012, Customs Act and related SROs will help the students a
lot..
| would like to thank the Chairman and the Committee Members of the Board of Studies (BoS)
of ICAB for their tireless support and co-operation for this publication. | express my special
thanks. and gratitude to Mr. Muhammad Abu Hanif Meah FCA, Mr. Rakesh Saha FCA,
Partner, Ernest & Young Advisory Services Bangladesh Limited & Mr. Mohammad
Fakhrul Alam, Director General, Customs Intelligence. & Investigation Directorate, NBR,
GoB. for applying their professional skill and expertise in preparing and reviewing ‘this Manual.
ICAB, the regulator of the accountancy profession in Bangladesh, acknowledges the need, and
supports the move for such: updating of various Study Manuals from time to time. Being a
member of the. International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and having twinning
arrangements with the. Institute of Chartered Accountants. in England and Wales, ICAB is
obliged to standardize its students’ training lines. In this regard, CAB has updated the Study
Manuals to cater to the continuous needs of CA Students. The publication of this Manual will
provide: necessary guidance to ‘the CA Examinees to prepare themselves with updated
knowledge. in taxation for their examinations as well as of their technical and professional
expertise.
| would like to thank the members of the Institute, Vice Presidents,. Chief Executive Officer,
Employees of Education and Students’ Affairs Division and also those who were involved in
publication of the Manual.
Md Moniruzzaman FCA
President, ICAB
Page |3

Zs ২২৬৮২ TE 7 =] Se wiennnreaL
res en TT Os
BANGGADESH | [REEERY CRBANGLADESH
THE INSTITUTE OF CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS OF BANGLADESH (ICAB)
SYLLABUS
TAX PLANNING AND COMPLIANCE
PROFESSIONAL LEVEL.

Tax Planning and Compliance- 100 Marks

MODULE AIM.

To develop students’ understanding of the critical aspects of Bangladesh Taxation; application of the
knowledge gained at. the Certificate Level study in the areas of tax compliances, tax principles,
management, adiiinistration, computation, collections, payments, return preparation, filing, dispute
issues and Value Added Tax (VAT) rules.

On completion of this module, students will be able to:

* récognize the ethical issues arising while perfofming tax work and identify thé obligations the
Bangladesh system of taxation imposes, on taxpayers and the implications for taxpayers of
noncompliance;

* deal with. tax research, tax. compliances, tax. planning, and decision making in complex tax scenario
and calculate tax payable. by individuals, and businesses

* deal with provisions of double taxation relief, transfer pricing and other important areas of international
taxation.

* calculate the.amount of VAT and other indirect.taxes, payable. by businesses:

METHOD OF ASSESSMENT

The Tax Planning and Compliance nodule is assessed by.a 3-hour written exam. The questiohs:cover
the areas of the syllabus in accordance with the weightings-set.out.in the specification grid. Students
will be assessed through computations, advice, planning and problem solving ‘in case-based
scenario.

Students will be assessed based on latest tax legislation, rules, regulations, etc. in a way'that exams
in November-December session may cover changes up to August and exams: in May-June session
may cover changes up to February of the.respective year.

Page |4

SPECIFICATION GRID
This grid. shows the relative. weightings of subjects: within this module and should guide the relative
study time:spent on each. The marks available:in the assessment will equate to the weighting ranges
below.
Syllabus: area Weighting
Range*
a নন ee
A1. Critical aspects of income tax, administrative functioning, dispute.resolution, 10-15
gift tax including ethical aspects. in income tax practice.
A2. Tax planning for individual, business or profession 25-30
A3. International taxation: Treaties and trarisfer pricing 10-15
B. Value Added Tax 30-35
*Total marks in examination will be 100.
Following learning outcomes: should be read with in conjunction with the. relevant sections of the
technical knowledge grids.
A1. Critical aspects of income tax, administrative functioning, dispute resolution, gift tax
including ethical aspects in income tax practice.
Students will be able to identify critical aspects of Bangladesh income ‘tax system, structure of tax
administration, different aspects of tax compliance and dispute resolution process in Bangladesh
Income: Tax.Regulations. In the examination, students may be assessed ‘through problem solving in
complex scenario in following areas:
a) Sources and structure of Bangladesh income tax law
Objective and importance of income tax; Role of income tax in economie:development.of Bangladesh;
Bangladesh tax structure; Scope of Bangladésh income: tax; Sources of tax law and practice:
Legislation; Case Law; NBR Publications; Structure of Income Tax Act, 2023; The concept of income;
Capital or revenue; Tax résidence; Tax and income tax; Tax liability on income; Different rates: of tax:
Changes in Finance Act; Changes through SROs and other notifications.
b) Administration and. Tribunal
Various income, tax authorities; Appointment of income tax authorities; Subordination and control of
income tax authorities; Jurisdiction of income tax authorities; Exercise of jurisdiction by successor;
Officers: to follow instruction of the board; Guidance tothe. deputy: commissioner of taxes; Exercise of
assessment functions; System of Tax. Zone and Circles; Powers of income. tax authorities;
Establishment of Appellate Tribunal; Exercise of power of the tribunal by Benches; Decision of Bench;
Exercise of Power by one member; Taxes Appellate. Tribunal’s procedures; Organization structure of
income tax authorities.
Page | 5

০) Return, statement, and furnishing certain information
Return of income; Form of submission of return; Signature and verification of return; Tax day; Delay
interest for filing return after tax day; Documents to be submitted along with. the return of income;
Return of withholding tax; Obligation to furnish annual information return; Concurrent jurisdiction;
Notice; Filing of revised return; Production‘of accounts and documents; Statement of assets, liabilities,
and expenditure and life style statement; Production of other information; Requirement of furnishing
certain information regarding payment of salary, dividend, interest and etc..Any other requirements of
return, statement, furnishing information under income tax Act.
d) Assessment
Provisional assessmént; Assessment on the basis of correct: return; Universal self-assessment;
Minimum tax; Spot. assessment; Assessment on the basis of hearing; Assessment on the: basis. of
réport of the chartered accountant; Best jitdgment.assessment; Income escaping assessment; Any
other types of assessment as per income. tax Act; Limitation for assessment.
e) Tax appeal and references
Appeal against order of DCT and IJCT; Tax payment before appeal; Fees for appeal; Time limits for
appeal: Appeal before the Appellate Joint Commissioner Or The Commissioner [Appeals];, Appeal
against, order of TRO; Appeal to Tax Appellate Tribunal; Reference to high court division of the
Supreme Court: Appeal to appellate division; Certified Copy.
f) Alternative Dispute Resolution
Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR); Eligibility for application; Application procedure for ADR;
Procedures: of disposal by the ADR; Eligibility for appointment as Facilitator; Decision of the ADR;
Effect of agreement; Limitation of appeal ‘where agreement is not concluded; Fees ০. be paid to
facilitator.
g) Power of tax authorities
Power to: call for information; Power to inspect registers of companies; Power of survey; Additional
powers of enquiry and production of documents; Power of search and seizer; Power to verify deduction
or collection of tax; Retention of seized assets; Application of retained assets; Power of IJCT to revise
orders of DCT: Revisional power of commissioners; Power to take evidence on oath:
h) Gift Tax
Imposition of Gift Tax, Exempted Gifts, Methods:of'determining value of the Gifts, Submission of return,
payment of tax, anyother important provisions related to Gift Tax.
i) Ethics and law
* The five fundamental principles and guidance given in the ICAB Code of Ethics for Professional
Accountants.
+ Legal and ethical issues:arising from tax work undertaken and explain the significance of these issues.
* Fundamental principles, threat‘and safeguards.
* Ethical conflict resolution. a
* Confidentiality and disclosure of information.
* Conflict of interest.
* Basie principles of taxation work.
* Anti-money laundering.
* Tax planning, tax:avoidance, and tax evasion.
Page | 6

A2. Income tax of individuals, business or profession

Students will be-able to deal with computations, professional advice, tax planning and problem solving
in Complex case-based scenario in. various ateas of individual and corporate tax includirig but not
limited to taxation of companies having both manufacturing and trading activities, 163 and non-163,
reduced rate and full rate, export incorfie and local income, carry forward and lossés, discontinued
operations, amalgamation or merger and acquisition, business restructuring, and etc.
In the examination, students may. be assessed ‘through problem solving, ‘tax planning, tax research
and writing professional advice: in following areas:.

a) Charge of'tax
Charge ‘of income'tax; Charge of surcharge; Charge of additional tax; Charge of minimum tax; Scope
of the: total income; Income deemed to accrue or arise:in Bangladesh; Special tax treatment in respect
of:someé expenditure, investments: etc:

b) Heads of income:

* Income from employment
Concept of salary and perquisites: Valuation of perquisites, allowances, and benefits to be included in
income from,salary; Contribution to different types of provident funds, and other funds; Non assessable
income under the head salaries.

* Income from financial assets |
Scope of interest on securities; Nature of sécurities; Types: of securities; Cum-interest vs. 6x-interest:
Bond washing transaction through sale and buy back. of securities; Expenses admissible; Tax free
securities.

* Income from rent . . . .
Scope of House Property; Coniputation of annual value; Inipact of self-occupancy; Allowable
deductions; Non assessable income; Formalities to be followed by landlord; Tax to be deducted at
source from: house property.

* Income from agriculture ; রা
Basics of‘agricultural income; Characteristics.of agricultural income; Categories:of:agricultural income;
Non-agricultural income; Income. from agricultural house property; Allowable deductions: Non-
‘assessable agricultural income:

* Income from business
Scope of income from business and profession; Allowable deduction in computing income from
business and profession; Expenses: not admissible income from business and profession; Capital and
revenue expenditure; Test for determining an expenditure as either capital or revenue nature;
Balancing charge: Compensation received from insurance company; Fractional income in certain
cases; Entertainment expense; Foreign travel allowance of employees; Free sample distribution;
Perquisites; Expenses allowed up to a-certain percentage; Expenses which. are capital expenditure as
per IFRSs but allowable as revenue expenses as per ITA; Minimum Tax.

* Capital gains
Determination of fair market value; Offer to buy the capital assets by the Government; Transfer of
capital assets used in the business; Tax exempted capital gains; No exemption on certain assets if
investment allowance is received; Tax rate in respectof capital gain; Special tax rates ‘on capital gain
from. sale of shares. of listed companies; Apportionment of sale. proceeds between original cost and
subsequent improvements.

Page | 7

* Income from other sources
Identify income from other sources; Royalty; Fees for technical services; Income from letting of factory
building along with machinery; Deemed income; Allowable deductions; Inadmissible deductions.

0০) Depreciation allowances
Basics:of depreciation allowances; Depreciation allowance for different. heads: of income; Depreciation
allowance on assets ised for agricultural piirpose; Depreciation allowance on assets Used. in business
or profession; Types of depreciation allowances; Normal depreciation allowance; Initial depreciation
allowance; Other depreciation allowance; Written down value: of assets for depreciation purpose;
Disposal of assets and treatment of gain or loss; Amortization of license fees; Limitation in respect of
dépreciation allowance; Assignment of Unabsorbed depreciation; Computation of depreciation
allowance.

d) Set-off and carry-forward of losses
Set off of losses; Procedure ‘to set off; Carry forward of business losses; Set off and carry forward of
loss. in spéculation business: Set off and carry forward of loss under the head ‘capital gains’; Set off
and carry forward of loss from agriculture; Carry forward of loss of firm and partner; Carry forward of
loss.of succeeded business or'profession; Carry forward of unabsorbed depreciation; Carry forward of
loss of'tax holiday undertaking; Procedures of carry forward.

e) Exemptions and tax holiday
Tax holiday schemes; Exemption under section. 44; Types of business eligible for tax holiday;
Categories of industries.within the meaning of industrial undertaking; Categories of infrastructure within
the meaning of physical infrastructure facilities; Conditions for eligibility; Application procedure: and its
disposal by the NBR; Withdrawal and cancellation of tax holiday; Period of tax holiday ‘for industrial
undertaking; Period of tax holiday for physical infrastructure facilities; Conditions to be fulfilled after
getting tax holiday; Documents to be.submitted with tax holiday application; Tax exemption of industry
set up at EPZ; Special tax exemptions/reduced rates/ concessions in respect.of certain industries.

f) Payment of tax before assessment
Deduction or collection at-source; Advance payment of tax; Person responsible for tax deduction at
‘source; Time limit for payment of tax:deducted at source; Manner of payment of tax deducted at source;
Issuance of certificates for-tax deducted at:source; Rates of TDS; TDS treated as minimum tax under
section 82C; Other important areas related to TDS; Consequence of failure to deduct; Requirement to
pay advance tax; Computation of advance tax; Installments of advance tax; Estimate of advance tax;
Advance payment of tax by different types. of assessee; Failure to pay installments; Levy of simple
interest for failure to pay advance tax; Credit. of advance tax; Interest payable by Government on
excess payment of advance tax; Interest payable by assessee on deficiency in payment of advance
tax; Payment of tax on the basis of return.

g) Income tax of individuals
Definitions; Scope of income of individual assesseeé; Residential Status; Non assessable-and tax'credit
income; Tax rate of individuals; Investment, allowances; Minimum Tax: Computation of total income
and tax liability of individuals; Preparation and filing return of income of individuals; Assessment.
procedures..

Page | 8.

h) Income tax, of companies
Definitions; Residential status of companies; Tax rates; Exemptions ‘and allowances; Computation of
taxable income and tax liability.of companies; Set-off and carry forward of losses; Minimum Tax: Tax
credit; Corporate Social Responsibilities; Preparation and filing return of income; Assessment
procedures.

i) Income tax.of partnership firms
Assessment of partnership firms; Special provisions regarding assessment of partnership firms; Rate
of tax applicable to firm; Sét-off and carry forward of firm’s losses; Computation of partners shafe in
the firm’s profit or loss; Liability-of a firm for unrecoverable tax due from partners.

j) Assessment of non-residents and liabilities. in special cases
Liability of representative in certain cases; Persons to be treated as agent; Right of representative to
recover tax paid; Liability of firm’ for unrecoverable. tax: due from partners; Liability of partners for
discontinued business of a firm; Liability of directors for unrecoverable tax of private companies;
Liability of liquidator for tax of private companies under liquidation; Liability of tax in case. of shipping
business of non-residents; Liability of tax in case of air transport business of non-residents; Taxation
of.discontinued operation, merger-and acquisition and 606.

k) Special provisions relating to avoidance of tax.
Avoidance of tax‘through transactions: with non-residents; Avoidance. of tax through transfer of‘assets;
Avoidance of tax, by transactions in: securities; Tax clearance certificates: required for persons leaving
Bangladesh; Form of tax clearance. and exemption certificates.

1) Recovery of tax
Tax to include Penalty, Interest, Etc.; Notice of demand; Penalty. for default in payment of tax;
Certificate for recovery of tax; Method of recovery by Tax Recovery Officer; Power of withdrawal of
certificate and stay of proceeding; Validity of certificate for recovery; Recovery of tax through collector
of district; Recovery of tax through special magistrates; Other methods of recovery.

m) Refunds:
Requirément to issue refund voucher; Entitlement to féfund: Claim of refurid; 00106000699 of
assessment, Etc., not to be questioned; Refund on the basis of appeal order; Form of claim and
limitation; Interest on delayed refund; Adjustment-of refund against'tax.

n) Appeal and references
Appéal against order of DCT and IJCT; Tax paymenit before appeal; Fees for appeal’ Time limits for
appeal; Appeal before the Appellate Joint Commissioner Or The Commissioner [Appeals]; Appeal
against order of TRO; Appeal to Tax Appellate Tribunal; Referencé to high court division of the
Supreme Court: Appeal to appellate division.

০) Penalty, offences and prosecutions
Penalty for not maintaining accounts. in the prescribed mariner; Penalty for failure to file: return,
certificate, statement, accounts of information; Penalty for using fake TIN; Penalty for failure to pay
advance tax; Penalty for non-compliance with notice; Pénalty for failure to pay tax.on the basis of
return; Penalty for concealment of income; Bar to impose penalty without hearing; Previous approval

Page | 9

21406 for imposing penalty; Penalty to be prejudice to other liability; any other penalty as per income
tax Act.
Punishment for non-compliance of certain obligations; Punishment for'false statement; Punishment for
improper use of TIN; Punishment for using fake audit report; Punishment for obstructing income tax
authority; Punishment for unauthorized employment; Punishment for concealment of income;
Punishment for disposal of property to prevent attachment; Punishment for disclosure of protected
information; Sanction for prosecution; Power to compound offenses; Trial by special judge.
p) Accounting
Methods of accounting; Change of accounting method; Requirement of a. company to furnish audited
accounts.
A3. International taxation: Treaties and transfer pricing
Students will be able to understand implications of key provisions in treaties and transfer: pricing
regulations in Bangladesh, undertake strategic: planning, identify transfer pricing compliance
requirements and deal with compliance process including identification of international transactions,
selecting most appropriate method, using transfer pricing databases 0 determine arm’s length price
and etc. - oe
In the examination, students.may be assessed through problem solving, strategic planning and writing
professional advice.in following areas:
a) Double Taxation Relief and Treaties:
« Meaning of Double taxation.
" Agreement of avoidance. of double. taxation.
* Relief in respect of income:arising outside Bangladesh.
« Methods of avoiding double taxation.
« Tax treaty and OECD Model Tax Convention.
» Enforceability of the treaties.
* Interpretations of the important concepts used in treaties.
» Important areas.addressed in treaties between Bangladesh and other countries.
« Understanding difference in the definition of ‘Permanent Establishment’ in. ITA, 2023, traditional
treaties, and OECD model tax. convention.
» Attribution of profits ‘to. a Permanent Establishment.
* How is business profit of a foreign company carrying out activities in Bangladesh through a
Permanent Establishment to be taxed in Bangladesh?
« How are capital gains, dividend etc. taxed using treaties?
» Provision for obtaining certificate from NBR to avail treaty benefit.
» Other commonly used provisions of treaties.
b) Transfer Pricing
» Concept of transfer pricing.
s Overview of OECD guidelines related to transfer pricing.
* Transfer pricing regulations in Bangladesh.
« ‘Understanding “International Transaction’ in ITA, 2023.
s Who are.required to comply with transfer pricing regulations in Bangladesh?
« What are the compliance requirements under transfer pricing regulations in Bangladesh?
# Arm's length price:
* Methods of determining arm’s length price.
« Application of different methods of determining arm's. length price.
@ Selection of most appropriate method for different nature of transactions.
Page | 10.

5 Benchmarking, and use of databases.
* Comparability Adjustments.
# ‘Transfer Pricing Adjustment.
# Submission of statement of international transactions.
" Maintenance of transfer pricing documentations.
« Key contents of a transfer pricing documentation report.
s Certificate from an accountant.
« Assessment of transfer pricing cases.
# Penalties in transfer pricing regulation.
« Recent developments in transfer pricing global best practice.
« Strategic’planning in different areas of international taxation.
8. Value-Added Tax
Students Will be able to identify Various: compliance requitements. under Value Addéd Tax (VAT)
system in Bangladesh, compute VAT payable, and deal with compliance process in relation to
VAT. They-will be able to design industry specific Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for major
industries in Bangladesh. In the examination, students may be assessed through complex
scenario in following areas:
A) Concept of Value Added Tax
Similarities and dissimilarities between VAT and Income. Tax:,Advantageés of VAT over'Sales Tax
and Excise Duty; Impact.of VAT on national development; Role of VAT chain in establishing
financial integrity; Tax expenditure; distortions in Bangladesh VAT system; introduction of online
VAT systems.
B) VAT Planning
Planning for the components of VAT SOP for major 5-6 industries considering rates, place of
imposition, registration, threshold, exemptions, zero. rating, VAT administration, cross-border
transaction, accounting, return filing, central or branch registration, compliance checklist and
Complex.areas foreach industry.
C) VAT Compliance Issues:
(i) Registration:
Central and branch registration; Conditioris for branch registration; preparation of registration
application; ‘Submission of application; Registration suspension and ‘cancellation; Transferring
Comimissionerate’, Updating registration information, Shifting Enlistment to Registration arid vice.
versa; VAT Agent, VAT Consultant, Registration and enlistment related forms; DOs & DON'Ts
chécklist for registration.
(ii) VAT Assessment:
Valuation:; Preparation of value Declaration for major industries; Use of Fair market price for value
determination, Valuation for services; Value declaration form preparation for manufacturer,
commercial trader and service renderer. Review process for value declaration; Preparation a
review application in case of increase value by commissioner; Art of presenting arguments before
commissioner during personal hearing; Price determination in various, special case, Costing and
Valuation; Declared value: versus transaction value complexity in ledger adjustment, DOs &
DON'Ts checklist for: valuation
Page | 11

Output Tax: Determining adjustment. process for real-time price and declared value in case of
differences; Case studies; DOs & DON'Ts checklist’for output tax calculation
Input Tax Credit: Critical situations for-credit: payment through banking channel, in case of bank
guarantees, bartered transaction, partial credit for different situations; credit mechanism for real
estate sector, construction. sector, etc:, DOs & DON’Ts checklist for credit
Adjustments: Debit note and credit note; defining different scenarios of adjustment .and
developing checklist of legal & procedural requirements. for Gach adjustment; DOs & DON'Ts
checklist for adjustments.
Net Tax Calculation & Payment: Determination of niet tax Using different set of business transaction
for different industries.
(iii) VAT Accounting
Invoices: Issuance. of different types of invoice in different situations; Designing invoices for
different industries and technologies like POS, ECR/EFD; Use of software and integration with
NBR system;, Use of Electronic Fiscal Device (EFD), Electronic Fiscal Printer (EFP), and Point of
Sale (POS) software, 11500 NBR enlisted software, Special provisions'for invoice: Utility services,
telco services, banking services, ride‘sharing services, C&F service, Insurance'service, etc., DOs
& DON'Ts checklist for invoicing system
Inventory: Casestudy and practical exercise on the filling up of the inventory register (Purchase
Register & and Sales Register) with different data set of different:industries from both Goods and
service sectors. Maintaining different forms, filing process, adjustment for input-output coefficient
mismatch, DOs & DON'Ts checklist for inventory management
Account Current: Ways of reducing account current balance to reasonable amount; Migration
from. 1991 VAT act-based account current to new system under 2012 act-based system; Prepaid
Vs Postpaid ‘system in VAT system; Process of maintaining account current, DOs & DON'Ts
checklist for cash flow management.
Other books of records Debit Note: Develop SOP for use of debit note, credit note, commercial
books of records.
(iv) Return Filing
Preparation for backward excel based calculations for each component of return; Data extraction
from General Ledger for prepating return; Synchronizing existing software: with réturn; Relation
for return with Price declaration form, Invoice, Inventory registers, Account current.and other VAT
and commercial documents.
D)Zerorates না তা
(i) Process: Develop SOP for Exports (Deémed and 01166090015) including bonded warehouse.
(ii) Duty. Drawback: DOs & DON'Ts: checklist for drawback; Parallel Cash incentive: and
drawback.

E) Refund
Develop SOP for Refund process covering critical situations.

F) Litigation:

Page | 12

(i) Quasi-judicial proceeding
Case Management: Techniques of reviewing case, Seizure report and SCN and preparing review
check list; Art of writing :a good reply for SCN; Presenting in Hearing; Techniques of giving good
arguments and counter logic in hearing; code of-conduct in quasi-judicial courts.
Appeal: Reviewing Adjudication order, preparing a good petition; Presenting in Hearing; Techniques
of giving good arguments and counter logic:in hearing; code of conduct in quasi-judicial courts
G) VAT Audit
Dealing aud|TArs;
H) Miscellaneous
Different relevant issues.
VAT on Cross-border Transactions
« Place of taxation rules
« Modes of'cross-border'transactions:
« Electronic transactions ; .
» ‘Taxation in different situations and design the solutions
« Future 'threats of VAT
| Skills How skills are assessed?
Assimilating and using information: Candidates may be required to identify tax”
Understand the situation and the implication of proposed transactions,
requirements calculate ‘taxable. income and tax liability in
Identify and use facts, figures and relevant case type scenarios, explain tax treatment
information. based on given unstructured information,
Identify and priorities key issues identity alternative: fax treatments, and
identify ethical issues in given scenarios..
Structuring problems and solutions Candidates may be required to identify tax
Structure data in accordance with the implication, and compute tax liability in given
requirements scenario; demonstrate technical skills; use
Apply technical knowledge and skills to accurate calculations to illustrate a solution;
scenarios.
Applying Judgment’ Candidates may be required to critically evaluate
0 Apply professional skepticism fact, figures and tax implication in given tax
Demonstrate critical thinking scenarios, assess alternative options and consequences of various
courses of action.
Concluding, recommending and Candidates may be required to analyze:given
communicating circumstances, determine. tax implications;
Apply technical knowledge to support develop solution and teach a reasoned
conclusion conclusion.
Present analysis and recommendations in
accordance with
the requirements
Present solution in a clear and concise style
Page | 13

Contents
Page
i 2 : Tax Administration and Taxes: Appellate Tribunal f 43-51 i
“3 | Chargeofincometax = ti (_tstsi‘“‘“‘“‘i;;!OO 8 BT
6 Incomefromrent 89-105
“7 | Income fromagricuiture রর =
( ৪1 Incomefrombusiness 120-140 |
: 10: Income from other sources i 6152-160 :
111 Depreciation allowances si iti‘—sTM~TM~STM | 161-174
Set'off and carry forward oflossés Ct
13; Exemptionandallowances = —i—i(‘i—s—S | 178-190
14, Deduction or collection‘oftaxatsource —~tS 191-201
“47 Assessment ্আদদৎ্“«০ৌ০০_/া$$বযংদাা দাদ
“18 Assessment of individuals °°" a gg
Assessment of partnership firms | 275-285
20| Assessment ofcompanies আদার
Liability in special cases and assessment of non-residents 334-339
22) Special provisions relating to avoidance of tax | 340-348.
Powers of income tax authorities including search and seizure | 349-358
234) Penaltyand prosecution = | 356-362
"581 Refunds ০
“29; Appealandreference = |. এ3্3বক
31; Tax planning | 461-468
32; Gifttax = # = 469-472
331 Value Added‘Tax -Portion (Separately) —tTM” / 41-70
34) Customs - Portion (Separately)
Page | 14

ees Soe ee EEA oO ey oe EDS fo
Chapter 1
Sources and structure of Bangladesh income tax law
[Contents াাাারেররেরর
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list
1.1 | Introduction EE
12 | Bangladeshtaxstructure = ssi (iti‘“s=‘“‘i‘;
| 1.37 “Sources of tax law and practice ররর
1.4 Scope of Bangladesh income tax আআ _ফাই
1.6 | Objectives and importance-of income tax
Role of income tax in economic development of Bangladesh
1.8 Some definitions & important concepts relating to tax
1.10 | Gapitalorrevenue ৫ ;
141) Taxandincometax sess
1.12 | Differentratesoftax = ititi—‘i—s~i‘“‘“‘<zaua ‘a
143. Liabilitytopaytax ৫৫৫ ৫৮ যয
“1.414 চক াানআ্দ্াদছ |
{15 | Some significant issues of income tax SS—~S~S ~ ) |
Page | 15

Learning objectives
= — Identify the objectives of tax in terms of economic, social justicé and environmental issues
পদ Recognize which taxes apply to different taxpayers e.g., individual, partners and companies:
2 Identify the sources of tax law
দ Get the idea about the income and income tax
* Know the history of income tax রা
# Recognize différent.rates of incéme tax applicable to individual, Corporate and others
পদ Understand the concept of capital and revenue expenditure:
2 Identify the residential status:of an assessee
Practical significance.
Every person in Bangladesh is affected by our tax:system in some ways, often on a daily basis and without
even realizing it. We pay tax on the money we.earn:and, on the:things, we buy’and this tax is of course
used by the government to pay for our development purpose such as.schools, hospitals, roads and so
on.
In Bangladesh‘we have an annual budget cycle‘which begins with the. pre-budget report:in late May/early’
June and ends with the enactment ofa Finance Act in June every year. This is supplemented by a huge
body of case laws and practical interpretation.
The Income Tax Act, 2023: (“ITA,. 2023"), Value Added Tax and Supplementary Duty Act, 2012, Customs
Act, 1969 aré the main sources of tax law. The. National Board of Revenue.(NBR),.a statutory body is the
highest;authority for the purpose of these Acts.
Income of different types are taxed at different rates. Before calculating income tax liability, one should
have: the concept of income, tax, tax rate and other relevant issues. Residential .status has significance
for determining tax liability.
One Way of helping people to deal with complexity in the tax system is to 056 technology. Presently
people can use computerized system to calculate tax on his/her taxable income. NBR is actively
incorporating automated processes to streamline and enhance tax compliance procedurés..
Stop and think:
It is. likely that. you have. been paying tax personally on your various sources of income/gains for some.
time. Have you stopped to think about how this affects the actions that. you take?
Working context
The impact of taxation on the overall economy'and the society is increasing day by day.. Tax.is charged
on different’types of assesses like individual, companies and otheys. The volume and complexity’of tax’
law is now such that many business houses have to spend considerable:amounts. of money:and time just
on tax administration and planning. Many business decisions will have tax consequences. Most. large:
corporate houses operate their business on a, global basis.
Without advice from an accountant, a business can easily find itself paying ‘too much tax:and missing
deadlines. It.is important to have a good overall feel for the tax system early in your studies so that you
know where to look’for‘the-detailed rules when you actually need them later on.

Page | 16

Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are essential background knowledge which will underpin the: whole of
your Taxation studies.
\[Examination context
Exam requirements
In the examination, candidates may be required to:
= — Identify the social justice principles being applied for taxation. purposes.
= Understand which taxes. apply to different taxpayers.
দ Identify the sources of tax law in Bangladesh.
® Define Some terminologies relating to income.tax.
s Determine the residential status of an assessee based on given information.
2 Identify the five-tier tax rate for individual and other tax rates for other assesses.
Question practice
For question practice on these topics, 800 0 the‘suggested questions and answers covering the basic idea
about taxation.
Objectives
Section overview
> Taxation system of Bangladesh has developed gradually and has been changed by successive
governments in accordance with their political philosophy.
> Governments. use taxation to encourage or discourage certain types of economic activity.
> Taxation may be used to promote social justice but there is no political consensus on what is meant
_ by this term. — ; -
> Environmental concerns have led to changes in taxation policy:
> Income tax is tax on income.
> The Act got its root from the then British India in 1860..
‘> Different tax:rates are applicable for different types of assessee and classes of income.
> Income tax is levied on income and not on capital receipts. _ . a a
> Theé-distinction between capital and révéenue receipts is much more difficult than betWeen capital and
revenue expenditure.
“> Residential status ‘is very vital for determining tax. liability.
1.1 Introduction
Among direct taxes, income tax is one of the main sources of revenue of Bangladesh Government to
generate funds for running its: administration and also funding development expenditure. Income tax is:
broadly classified in two categories namely “personal income tax” and “‘corporate. income tax”.
“Personal income tax” is ‘tax.on income of individuals, partnership firms etc. It has a progressive rate i:e.
rate of tax increases as income increases. While “corporate income. tax” is'tax on income of companies.
It has a flat rate i.e.; rate of tax is same irrespective of level of income. Income tax is, basically imposed
on the principle of ability to pay. “The more a taxpayer earns the more he should pay"- is the basic
principle of charging income tax. It aims at ensuring equity and ‘social justice.
Page | 17

Bangladesh, taxation system has developed over centuries from ‘the then British India in 1860 to the.
present condition on a piecemeal basis. The system, however, developed on the basis of generally
accepted canons. and there had been efforts towards rationalizing the tax administration for:optimizing
revenue collection, reducing tax evasion and preventing revenue leakage through system loss.
In the fiscal scheme of our country, at present, income tax is levied along with other direct.and indirect
taxes like. VAT,, Excise duty, Customs duty, Gift tax etc:
Direct tax and Indirect tax
Direct taxes are those: taxes incidence of which carinot be shifted. on others. The person paying ‘the: tax’
shoulders. the. entire burden of tax. This'is basically tax on person (both physical, & legal person):
Whereas indirect taxes are. those-taxes incidence of this is shifted by the pérson paying the tax to others
like his.customers. These.are basically tax on goods or services.
1.2 Bangladesh tax structure
The tax structure of Bangladesh consists of both direct taxes (income tax, gift tax, foreign travel ‘tax, land.
development tax, non-judicial stamp, registration, immovable property tax, etc:) and indirect taxes
(customs duty, excise duty, motor vehicle tax, narcotics and liquor duty, VAT, Turnover tax, SD, etc.).
Analysis of revenue collection activities in Bangladesh reveals that tax revenue accounts, for 85% of
government revenue.
In the national budget; tax revenue is: classified in two categories (on the basis of tax enforcing agency).
They are NBR tax and non-NBR. tax. The nomenclatures of NBR tax are income tax; value ‘added tax,
excise duty, turnover tax, export duty, import’ duty, régulatory duty, supplementary duty, foreign travel
tax, gift tax etc. The-share of NBR tax to total tax revenue is around 96%.
The nomenclatures.of'non-NBR tax are land revenue, non-judicial stamp, motor vehicles tax, registration
fees, narcotics and liquor duty etc.
As. per'the National Budget 2023, the tax revenue target for the fiscal year'2023-24 has 8661 591 by the
government to Tk. 4,30,000 crore which was Tk. 3,70;000 crore in the revised budget'of fiscal year 2022-
23.
From the analysis of the National Budget 2023-24, it can be revealed that in the fiscal year 2023-24
revenue collections from Value Added Tax (VAT) have been estimated at around Tk. 1,63,837 crore
(38.10% of total tax), from income tax at Tk. 1,53,260 crore (35.64%), from import & other duty at Tk.
52,200 crore.(12:14%) and from supplementary duty:at Tk. 60,703 crore (14:12%).
Thé significant features of Bangladesh tax system are as follows:
A) Multiple tax system: The tax.system of Bangladesh consists of various types of taxes which are as

follows:
|. Taxes on income and profit:

1. Income-tax - Company

2. Income-tax — Persons other'than company
ll. Taxes on property & capital transfer

1. Gift tax

2. Narcotics Duty

Page | 18

3. Land Revenue

4. Stamp Duty - non judicial
lll. Taxes on goods and services:

1. Customs Duties (Both on import and export)

2. Excise Duties.

3. Value Added Tax (VAT)

4. Turnover tax

5. Supplementary Duty (usually on luxurious and socially undesirable items)

6. Road tax.

7. Electricity. Duty

8. Other'taxes and duties: (Foreign travel tax)
B) Tax administration in Bangladesh:
National. Board of Revenue (NBR) is the supreme authority for tax administration in Bangladesh and
collects around 85% of total revenue for the country. Various reform measures have been taken and still
in consideration to make the tax system of the country more-effective and efficient.
C) Tax avoidance behavior of the taxpayers:
The culture of tax compliance is low. Due to weakness of enforcement the level of tax evasion &
avoidance. remains high. The reliance on indirect taxation has beer treated as one of the main obstacles:
in attaining economic progress in Bangladesh since only a few tax payers share the burden of taxes.
Despite NBR's untiring effort, the progress is not still satisfactory. People especially corporate entities
use: various: measures to evade tax using loopholes of the current tax system.
D) Narrow tax base:
Our tax base is. too narrow and the tax law is full of exemptions. and allowances. Agricultural sector
provides employment ‘for around 60 percent of the population contriblités only 20 percent of GDP and.
virtually pays little in the form of income tax. Narrow tax base: remains a big obstacle:in augmenting tax:
Fevenue.
From the above discussion, it is clear that attaining an optimal tax-structure is one of the most important
issues for the government'of Bangladesh to increase the revenue:generation from taxes for accelerating
growth and to improve the quality. of life of the: citizens. A long-term sustainable solution. to: enhance.
transparency, promote growth, improve tax compliafice and thus to increase. tax’to. GDP. ratio is a much
desirable issue in the context. of Bangladesh.
Furthermore, the tax:-collection in Bangladesh is more skewed towards collection on indirect tax. In OECD
countries the trend is normally opposite where direct tax contributes. more than 60% of the total tax
‘collection of the country. These:.also somewhat indicate inefficient tax:structure of the country.

Page | 19

1.3 Sources of tax law.and practice of income tax
A. Legislation
The legislations behind income tax regulation are: as follows:

1. Income Tax Act, 2023:

2. Income. Tax Rules, 1984 7 . . রা

3. Finance ০0010761690600%6 year-and its clarification given by the NBR

4. Double Taxation Avoidance Agreements (DTAA)

5. Statutory Rules and Orders (SRO).
B. Case laws
Over the years, many hundreds of tax.cases have been brought before the:courts:where the interpretation.
of the tax law is. not clear.
Decisions made by the honorable judges to resolve these cases form case laws. Many judgments are:
precedent for future. ০৪৪০৪ which means ‘that they must be followed unless superseded by legislation or
the decision of higher court.
C. NBR publications
The National Board of Revenue (NBR) is a statutory body having the highest executive authority and
empowered to make. necessary rules relating to income ‘tax matters. NBR makes. available some forms,
notifications, brochures, and. guidelines of income tax, VAT and customs duty through its websites: and
other‘forms of communication for public at largé. NBR also issues instructions & guidance, to.subordinate.
tax office. which is a binding on them. There are. many SROs and circulars on income tax and VAT
published by NBR providing guideline for tax purpose.
1.4 Scope of Bangladesh income tax
Some provisions, rules and regulations have-to be kept in mind in order'to:determine income'tax. These
are as follows:

1. The Income Tax Act, 2023: The Income Tax. Act, 2023. came into force on 2274 June 2023. It is
divided into 25 parts with numerous sections, sub-sections, clause, sub-clause, proviso and eight
‘schedules.

ll. Income Tax Rules, 1984: The procedural matter required to implement the tax regulations is
incorporated in Income Tax Rules. NBR is empoWered to: make: or amend rules. Additionally, Rules
for Tax Deducted at. Source, 2023 and Rules for Income Tax Preparer, 2023 have already been
issued by NBR.

Ill. Finance Act: To give effect to the various proposals in the annual budget covering the areas of direct
and indirect taxes. It contains:

- taxrates.

- amendments of the clause/sub-section/section/schedule in laws relating to government tax or
non-tax revenue.

- insertion of new clause/sub-section/section/schedule in the existing laws relating to government
tax or non-tax revenue.

- deletion of old clause/sub-section/section/schedule in the existing laws relating to government
tax or non-tax revenue.

- — introduction of new laws relating to-government tax or non-tax revenue.

Page | 20.

- Refinement of existing law.
IV. SRO (Statutory Rules and Order): SROs.are subordinate law. Section 343 of the Income Tax:Act,
2023 empowers NBR to issue Rules whereas section 76(1) of the Income Tax Act, 2023 empowers
‘to issue notification via government gazette to exempt'tax of a person or a class of persons.
V. Income tax.case law: During assessment proceedings, dispute may'arise between the NBR and the.
assessee over the interpretation of some of the provisions of the act and rules. The assessee can go
‘the. court objecting the NBR's interpretation, and the judgments given by the. courts act.as. guidance
to the assessing officers and the assessee in similar nature in the future.
1.5 Structure of Income Tax Act, 2023
The Income. Tax Act, 2023 came into force on 224 June 2023..A brief description regarding the manual
is enumerated below:
1. The Income Tax.Act, 2023 - Chapters and sections
— Preliminary ৷ ৷ ৷ ৷৷যব্্৷
nao" Taxes Appellate Tribunal 13-17 00
4 Charge. of income. tax 0 পয
=" | Exemptions, deletion, and tax holiday 76-85
a Payment of tax 86-162
=" Minimum tax I 163-164.
=o | Return, Statements, anddocumenis. ~~~ ”~—~CSTM—CS—C“‘<XW'/-17F.
না Assessment of tax and audit 4 180-196 “|
ee Limitation of time OT
oo পন "Recovery of evaded tax গাও
714. Collection, refund and adjustment 214-2290
পচা Prevention oftaxavoidance. =~ ~~ ~~S*~CSTMYS~*~CS~«SOND
ee International treaty management. 4 244-251 “|
mo ""47""~ Agency, representative and rélated issues mr 252-260
“48 | Registration মল্লনলল্না্1দছ্্ূরঙ্সএোস
7207 Revision. appeal and reference a 285-308 ~—
"91 | Protection ofinformation র্র্দাাাদছ রা রর
না রা Criminal offences and prosecution রর 310-326 —_
733 Authorized representative 00mg
তাল লল্্াাা৷৷া_ রর
725. Miscellaneous — 329-345 —_
Page | 21

Il. The Income Tax Act, 2023 - Schedules:

| SL#/ Schedule = চট
না First Schedule. i Special rate of investment EEE
“2° TSecond Schedule | Approvedfunds =~=~~SO*=CS~s=“‘“‘“‘<“‘“‘;7;<; ;<SCCS*é‘ ; 3S
3°) Third Schedule Pepreciation depen, and amortzaton
OG) Fourth Schedule _ Computation of the profits and gains of insurance business |
"8 Fifth Schedule | Computation of profits and gains from mineral deposits in certain cases |
oe Sixth Schedule Taxexemption, rebate, andcredit =# = ©.
"97 Seventh Schedule | Special tax rate EEE
"Bl Bight Schedule. | Specialprovisions = ~~ ~~ S—S—~—

lll: The Income Tax: Rules, 1984

The IT Rules, 1984, comprises rules to supplement various sections and provisions of the Income T:ax

Act, 2023. National Board of Revenue (NBR) enjoys flexibility to. amiénd or chafige any rules through ‘the:

notification in the official gazette.

IV. Rules of Tax: Deducted at.Source,.2023

The TDS. rules have beén published to align with the new ’tax law, which has essentially replaced. certairi

provisions in the IT Rules, 1984 concerning tax-deduction, source collection, and related statements.,

V. Rules of.Income Tax Return Preparer, 2023

This is in line with ‘the. appointment, terms of activitiés, and related provisions for Income Tax Return

Preparers, which constitute a new addition in the:tax legislation.

1.6 Objectives. and importance of income tax

Taxation is one of the major sources.of revenue to Government. The main objectives of taxation are (a)

to meet the. country's. development expenditure (b) to accomplishing some economic and social

objectives, such as redistribution of income, encouraging savings, price ‘stabilization and discouraging
consumption of harmful and'socially undesirable goods. Importance of income tax is as follows:

(a) Revenue.collection: Income tax is a major source of revenue for the government. In Bangladesh,
income tax revenue accounts for nearly 35% of total tax tevenue. Therefore, the first and foremost
aim of income tax isto raise public revenue to meet the ever-increasing public expenditure.

(b) Re-distribution of income: An effective, efficient and fair taxation system. can reduce inequalities in
income and wealth. This is possible by. taxing rich pédple héavily. and to coffer benefit to the poorer
section through progressive income tax.

Page | 22

(0) Increase in savings: An. effective and efficient tax system encourages people to save through
providing tax credit facilities on investment allowance.

(d) Increase in capital investment: An effective and efficient tax system encourages local and foreign
investors to invest in the country through providing, various facilities like tax. credit ‘facilities. on
investment allowance, tax holiday scheme, depreciation ‘allowance, tax incentives etc.

(e) Economic development: The income tax revenue can be used by the government to ensure the.
économic. development of the country. It can be used to build the infrastructure, to invest’ in social
security programs, in various poverty elevation programs. The incentive to investment also
encouraging production & there. by growth of GDP.

So, from the above discussion it.is 0681 that, income ‘tax plays a very significarit role: in the economic

development of a country. For'this.reason, various reform strategies have been'taken to modernize NBR.

1.7 Role of income tax in economic development of Bangladesh

As it has been discussed before, taxation is one:of the major sources of public revenue to meet:a.country's

revenue and development expenditures with a view to accomplishing some fundamental economic and

‘social objectives, such as redistribution of income, price stabilization and discouraging harmful

consumption. The contribution of income tax. is. playing a pivotal role in the economic: development of

Bangladesh. The government of Bangladesh has:taken various measures to modernize the tax system

and imposed various provisions in the Income Tax.Act, 2023. Some 00016 provisions are as following:

(a) Tax holiday scheme: As:per Section 81, read in conjunction with Part'4 of Schedule Six ofthe. Income
Tax Act, 2023, an industrial undertaking and a. physical infrastructural facility established for the:
production of specific goods and operation of designated facilities shall be eligible for tax exemption
‘for a duration. of up. to 10. years, subject to varying rates. This. arrangement is commonly referred ‘to
as the Tax Holiday Scheme. The primary aim of implementing this scheme is to foster economic:
growth via industrialization, thereby attracting investments in targeted sectors.

(0) Income tax exemptions to exporters’ income: From July 1, 2023, to Juné 30, 2028, a 50%.
exemption will be:granted for income derived from export conducted by individuals, partnership firms,
and Hindu Undivided Families (HUFs). For other taxpayers, the applicable tax rate will be 12%, with
a reducéd rate of 10% applicable to income. from export derived from Leadership in Energy arid
Environmental Design (LEED) certified factories. This arrangement is outlined in SRO No..210, dated
June 26, 2023.

(c) Certain IT-enabled services are eligible for tax exemption: In accordance with Paragraph 21 of
Part One of Schedule Six, specific:information technology-based services are grantéd tax exemption.
from July 1, 2020, to June 30, 2024, with the aim of fostering growthwithin the IT sector.

(0) Accelerated depreciation allowance: Accelerated Depreciation allowance. is allowed on the new
machineries used in various industries at a specified rate (50% of the. cost in the first year, 30% in
‘the 2nd year and remaining 20% in the 3rd year).

(9) Tax incentives for:small & medium industries: As per Paragraph 24 of Part One of Schedule Six,
tax incentives are granted on the income and profits of small and medium. enterprises, aimed at
promoting investments in industries that hold the poténtial. to make substaritial contributions: to the
economy:

Page | 23

(00 Tax incentives for encouraging savings: The government also encourages. savings. providing tax
rebate and investment tax. credit facilities on certain types of investment and ‘expenses such as,
purchase of sharés and debentures, savings:certificate, DPS, insurance premium, provident'fund étc.

(0) Tax exemptions. in certain expenditures: Certain expenditures to enhance social welfare like.
contribution to: president's/prime minister's relief fund: Government Zakat. fund, Ahsania Mission
Cancer Hospital etc. are exempted from tax: payment. These provisions also encourage: people to
Spend in certain. social development program.

(h) Tax incentives for foreign investors: For: attracting foreign investors various concessions like tax’
holiday, tax exemptions for interest, royalty, technical 'assistance.and fees, remittance to own country
have been allowed.

(i) Allowance for scientific research: For developing néw products, technologies in the industrial
sectors certain allowance is allowed. Tax:rebate is given on the cost of relevant scientific:research.

(j) Tax incentives for remittance to Bangladesh: A. significant number of Bangladeshi people work
abroad and to encourage them remittances through banking channel has been declared tax
exempted.

So, it'can be:said that to ensure the economic: development-of the country certain provisions have been

introduced in the ITA, 2023. These provisions encourage not only foreign investors, but also the local

entrepreneurs.

1.8 Some definitions & important concepts relating to tax

1. Assessee [u/s 2(22)]: "assessee", means any taxable income earner and include following person,
namely —

(a) a petson by whom any tax or other'sum of money 13: payable. under this Act,

(8) every person whose income, or income of any other person with whose income is assessable;

(c) person for whom proceedings, under'this Act have been take to deternine the amount due to him
or another person.,

(d) person by whom:a minimum tax:is payable;

(e) person liable to file or furnish any return, document or statement;

(f) person desires to be assessed and file. return.

(g) person deemed to be an assessee or assessee in default under this Act;

(h) person against whom any proceeding under this. Act have been taken.

2. Assessment year [u/s 2(24)]: “assessment year" means the period of'twelvé months commencing
on the first day of July every year; and includes any such period which is deemed, under the.
provisions of this Act; to be.assessment 58117 respect of any income for any period;

3. Business [u/s 2(14)]: “business” includes

(a) Any trade, commerce or goods manufacture
(b) Any trade, commerce or production of goods related risk. undertaken or endeavor
(c) Exchange of goods or'services of any for profit or not for ‘profit entity;
(d) Any profession or occupation
4. Capital asset [u/s 2(15)]: "capital:asset" means
(a) Property of any’kind held by an asséssee,
(b) Any business or undertaking entirely or unit wise;
(c) Any share or'stock
However, following mantter shall not include —
Page | 24

(a) any stock-in-trade, consumable ‘stores. or raw materials held for the purposes of his: business;

(b) personal effects; that is to. say, movable property (including wearing apparel, jewellery; furniture,
fixture, equipment and vehicles), which are held exclusively for personal use by, and are not-used
for purposes of the:-business or profession of the assessee or any member of his family dependent
on him;

5. Charitable purpose [u/s 2(43)]: "charitable piirpose" means:—

(a) Relief for the poor, education relief, medical relief; and 7 -

(b) The improvement and. extension of any purpose of general public utility

Provided that the. improvement or extension of any general purpose. utility shall not bé.deemeéd to
be:a charitable purpose —
(i) Unless itis approved by the NBR;
(ii) Ifit-is involves in any ofthe following activities -
০ Any activities in the nature of trade; commerce or business whatever its natute or type
০ If any services rendered in exchange. of consideration and the total value of consideration
exceeds Tk.20 lakhs in any income year.

6. Child [u/s '2(84)]: "child", in relation to any individual, includes a ‘step-child and an adopted child of
that individual:

7. Company [u/s 2(31)]: “company” means a company as defined in the Companiés Act, 1994 (VIII of
1994)] and includes-

(a) The liaison office, representative office or branch office ofa foreign establishment;

(b) Any permanent establishment of any foreign entity or person;

(c) Any association or body registered under or by the laws ‘of any country outside Bangladesh;

(0) Any. bank, insurance or'financial institution;

(e) Any industrial and commercial organization, foundation, society, co-operative society and ‘any

_ educational institution:

(f) Any organization registered with NGO Affairs Bureau or Microcredit Regulatory Authrity;

(g) Any firm,-Association of Person, joint venture, called wherever name if any member of is company
undre the Companies Act, 1994 or a foreign entity.

(h) Statutory Government Authority, Local Authority, Autonomous Body;

(i). Any entity established or constituted by or under‘any laW forthe time being in force;

(j) All entities. other than individual person, firms, AOP,; Trusts, HUF and Funds a

(k) Any such foreign association or body’ not incorporated by or under any Act, which may be.
declared as a company by the Board by general or special Order for the purpose of this Act.

8. Deputy Commissioner of Taxes [u/s 2(17)]: "Deputy Commissioner of Taxes" means. a person
appointed to be a Deputy Commissioner of Taxes u/s 4, and includes a person appointed to be: a.
Transfer Pricing Officer, Assistant Commissioner of Taxes, an Extra Assistant Commissioner: of
Taxes and a Tax Recovery Officer;

9. Dividend [u/s:2(81)]: "Dividend" includes--

(a) any distribution by a company of accumulated profits, whether capitalized or not, if such
distribution entails the release by the company to its shareholders. of all or any part of‘its assets
or reserves;

(b) any distribution by a company, to the extent to which the company possesses accumulated
profits, whether capitalized or not, to its shareholders of debentures, débenture-stock.or déposit
certificates in any form, whether with or without interest;

Page | 25

(০0) -any distribution. made to the shareholders of a company on its liquidation to the extent to which

the distribution is attributable to the. accumulated profits of the company immediately before its
_ liquidation, whether capitalized or not;

(0) any distribution by a company to its shareholders on the reduction of its capital, to the extent'to:
which the company possesses accumulated profits, whether such accumulated- profits: have
been Capitalized or not;

(e) any profit remitted outside Bangladesh by a company not incorporated in Bangladesh under the
Companies Act, 1994 (VIII of 1994);

00. any distribution 01010000108 mutual fund or an alternative investment fund

(g) any payment bya private company of ary sum (whether as representing a part of the assets of
the company or otherwise) by way of advance or loan to a shareholder or any payment by any
such company on behalf, or for the individual benefit, of any. such shareholder, to ‘the extent to
which the company, in either case, possesses accumulated profit;

But does not include--

(i) a distribution made in accordance with sub-clause (c) or sub-clause (0) in respect of any share
including preference:share for full cash consideration, or redemption of debentures:or debenture-
stock, where the holder of the share or debenture is not entitled in the event. of liquidation to
participate in the surplus assets:

(ii) any advance or loan made to .a shareholder in the ordinary. course of its business, where the
lending of money is a substantial part of the busiriess of the company;

(iii) Any dividend paid by a company'which is:set off by the company against'the whole or any part of
any‘sum previously paid by it and treated as dividend within the meaning of sub-clause (e) 0 the
extent to-which it is'so set off.

(iv) any bonus share issued by.a company.

10. Employer [u/s 2(47)]: "employer" includes a former employer;

11. Employee [u/s 2(25)]: "employee", in'relation toa company, includes the managing director, or any
other director or other person, who irrespective of his designation, performs, any duties. or functions
in connection with the management of the affairs of the company;

12. Fair market value [u/s 2(48)]: "fair market value” means, value determined by the Board.

13. Fees: for technical services [u/s 2(30)]: "fees for tectinical services" means any consideration
including any lump sum consideration for the rendering of any managerial, technical or consultancy
services (including the provision of services of‘technical or other personnel) but does not include:

(a) Corisidération for any construction, assembly, mining or like project.undertaken by the. recipient,
or

(b). Consideration which would be income of'the recipient classifiable under the head "Income from
Employment’ ;

14. Income [u/s 2(13)]: "income" includes--

(a) any income, profits or gains, from. whatever source: derived, chargeable to tax: under any

provision of this Act;

(b) any amount which is subject to collection or deduction of tax at source under any provision of
this Act

(c) any loss related to income, profits or gains mentioned under a above;

(0) the profits.and gains of any business of insurance.carried on by a mutual insurance association
computed in accordance with paragraph 8 of the Fourth Schedule;

(e) any sum deemed to be income, or any income accruing or arising or received, or deemed to
accrue or arise or be received in Bangladesh under any provision of this Act.

Page | 26

(0 any such money; payment or transaction on which.a tax is imposed;

15. Income year [u/s.2(15)]: "income year”, means financial year immediately preceding the assessment
year and includes:

(a) the period beginning with the date of setting up‘of a business and ending with the thirtieth day
of June:following the date:of setting up of such business;

(b) the period beginning with the date on. which a source of income newly comes into, existence
and ending with the thirtieth day of June’following the date on which such new source comes
into existence:

(c) the period beginning with the first day of July and ending with the date of discontinuance of
the business: or dissolution of the unincorporated body or liquidation of the company, as the.
case may be,

(d) the period beginning with the first:day of July and ending with the date of retirement or death
of a participant‘of the unincorporated’ body;

(e) the period immediately following the date. of retirement, or death, of a participant of the
unincorporated body and ending with the date of retirement, or death, of another participant or
the thirtieth day of June following the date-of the retirement, or death, as the case may be;

(f) in the case. of bank, insurance financial institution or any‘financial institution the period of 12

~ months.commencing from the first day of January of the relevant year; or

Provided that'the DCT may allow a different financial year-for a company which isa subsidiary, including

a subsidiary thereof, or holding company of a parent company incorporated ‘outside: Bangladesh or a

branch or liaison office'‘thereof if such company requires to follow.a differént financial yéar for the purpose.

of.consolidation of its accounts with the parent company;

16. Person [u/s 2(69)]: "person" includes an individual, a firm, an AOP, a HUF, a trust, a fund, a
company;

17. Recognized Provident Fund [u/s 2(90)]: "recognized provident fund" means a provident fund which
has been, and continues to be, recognized by ‘the: Commissioner in accordarice with the provisions.
of Part.3: of the Second Schedule:

18. Resident [u/s.2(55)]: "resident", in respect of any income year, means
(a) an individual who has been. in Bangladesh-

(i) for a period amounting in all to, 183 days or more in that’year; or
(ii) for'a period of, or periods amounting in all to, 90 days or more in that year having previously
been in Bangladesh fora period of, or periods amounting in all to'365 days or more during 4
years preceding that year;
(b) a HUF, fifm- or other association of persons, the coritrol and management of whose. affairs is
situated wholly ‘in Bangladesh in that year; and
(c) a Bangladeshi company‘or any’ other company the control ahd management of whose affairs is.
situated wholly in Bangladesh. in that year;
(d) a trust, a ‘fund or an entity, ‘the control and management whose affairs is Situated wholly. in
Bangladesh in that year;

19. Royalty [u/s. 2(79)]: “royalty” means consideration (including any lump sum. consideration but
excluding any consideration which is: classifiable as income of the recipient under the head "capital
gains") for --

(a) transfer of all or any rights, including the granting of a license in respect of a patent, invention,
model, design, secret process or formula, or trade mark or‘similar property;
(b) the imparting of any: information concerning the working of, or the use of, a patent, invention,
model, design, secret process or formula, 01806 mark or similar property:
Page | 27

(c) the use of any patent, invention, model; design, secret processor formula, 20806 mark or'similar
property;

(d) the imparting of any information concerning technical, industrial, commercial, or scientific
knowledge, experience or skill;

(e) any tranfer of rights, including copyritht or licensing of the film, other than sale, distribution or
exhibition of the cinematograph flim;

(f) the rendering of any services in connection with any of the aforesaid activities;

20. Tax [u/s 2(21)]: "tax" means the:tax payable‘on income and includes any additional tax, excess profit
tax, pénalty, penalty tax, super tax, interest, fee or other charges leviablée or payable under this Act;

21. Tax Day [u/s 2(23)]: Tax Day means
(a) In case of an assessee.other'than company 30" day of November
(৮) In case of company 15" day-of the: 7" month following the end of the income year or the 15" day

of September following the end of the income year where the said 15" day falls before the 15"
day of’ September.
(০) 30 June following the end of the income year in case-of individual assessee who has never filed
a return before:
(0) In case of individual assessee residing abroad, the 90 day from the date: of his return to
Bangladesh, if such person —
|. Stays outside. Bangladesh on leave for higher education or on deputation or lien for
employment; or
Il. Stay outside: Bangladesh with valid visa and permitted for the purpose of earnings.
(e) Ifthe Tax.Day is holiday, then automatically it would be the next working day.

22. Total income [u/s :2(78)]: "total income" mearis the total amount of income referred to in section 26,
computed in the manner laid down in this Act, and includes any income which, under any provision
of this.Act, is to be included in'the total income. of an assessee:

23. Transfer [u/s 2(93)]: "transfer", in relation to a capital asset, includes the. sale, exchange. or
relinquishment of the asset, or the extinguishment of any right therein, but:does not include-

(a) any transfer ofthe capital asset under a gift, bequest, will or an irrevocable trust;

(b) any distribution of the assets of a company to its shareholders on its liquidation; and

(০) any distribution of capital assets on the dissolution-of a firm or other association, of persons or on
the partition ofa Hindu undivided family;

24. Year [u/s 2(59)]: "year" means a financial year.

1.9 The concept of income

Concept of income in the Income Tax Act, 2023 is an inclusive definition but not exhaustive. It describes

sources of income, but it refrains from sayirig: what is income. It is also important to note. that the word

‘income’ used in ITA, 2023 is not limited only to ‘profit or gains’ and hence in order to consider as income.

itis not necessary that it should constitute or provide a profit or gain to‘the: assessee.

The illegality of income ‘does not exemptiit from tax, the revenue’ shall not. be concerned with the: tainting

of illegality of.income:or its source.

There is no exhaustive definition of “income” in the Income Tax Act, 2023. The term income is easy to

understand but difficult to define. What is taxed, as ‘so often has been pointed out under'the income tax

law, is nothing that is real; it is the.statutory income measured in a way.

The object.of the Act is to tax “income”. The term is expanded in many sections into income, profits and

gains; but the expansion is more a matter of words than of substance. The word “income” is.an expression
Page | 28

of elastic-ambit and the courts when. describing income have almost always qualified their:description by

‘saying that it is not exhaustive.

From various judicial decisions, the following are held to be characteristics of income:

(a) Income should be received in the form of money or money’s worth.

(b) Income should be in the form of revenue nature.

(c) It should arise from some:definite source or a source‘with some sort‘of regularity.

(d) It should be derived from a person other than the recipient.

(e) Income tainted with illegality is also classified as taxable income under tax law.

Income is a more general term than profits or gains: The words “income, profits and gains” are

01960 in a-distinctive 59756, and the word “income” is not limited by the Words “profits” and “gains”.

A.receiptmay be taxable as income, although it:may contain no element of profits or gain. Profits

Of gains mean something which is interést'or fruit, as;opposed to principal 27066. “Gains” is.really

equivalent to “profits”. The profit of a trade or business is the surplus by which the receipts from

the trade or busiriess exceed the:expenditure necessary for the purpose of earning these receipts.

Section 2(13) of the Income Tax Act,.2023 gives.a definition of income as under:

‘Income’ includes-

(a) any income, profits or gains, from whatever'source derived, chargeable to. tax. under any provision.of
this Act,

(b) any amount which is subject to collection or deduction. of tax at sourcé under any provision of this.
Act;

(c). any loss of such income, profits or gains under sub-clause (a);

(d) the profits and gains: of any business of insurance carried on by a mutual insurance association
computed in accordance with paragraph 8 of the Fourth Schedule;

(e) any sum deemed to be income, or’any income accruing or arising or received, or deemed to accrue:

_ or arise or be received in Bangladesh under any provision of this Act.

(f) any amount, payment, or transaction on which a tax is imposed.

To understand the true nature of income, the following two case decisions can be referred to:

(a) Shaw Wallace & Co case:

“Income. in the Act connotes a periodical monetary return coming in with some sort of regularity or

expected regularity from a definite source. The: source need not be continuously productive, but it must.

be one where object is the production of'a definite return, excluding anything a mere windfall. Income is:

essentially the product of something which is-often loosely spoken as ‘capital’. It is not correct to say that

every receipt which is not a capital is assessable. On the other hand, it is only receipts that are of the

nature of income receipts that are assessable”

(b). Rani Amrit Kunwar case:

“Income, in order to be taxable, need not. arise from any business activity, investment of enforceable

obligation to pay, but may arise from voluntary or customary payments. Nor is it necessary that it should

be the result of some outlay on'‘the part of the assessee”

Therefore, for the purposes of the Income Tax Act, 2023, income is a periodical monetary return coming

in with some sort of regularity. or-expected regularity from a definite source, not excludéd by‘the Act..

Page | 29

Total income: section 2078)
Section 2078) defines the term “total Income’ as follows: “total income” means the total amount of income:
referred to in section 26 computed in the manner laid down in ‘the Act; and. includes any income which,
under any provision of the Act is:to be included in the total income of an assessee.
1.10 Capital or revenue
Difference between capital and revenue is of vital importance. Income tax is levied on income and not
on capital receipts. While ascertaining the profits of a business or profession, the revenue expenditure.
is deductible from the trading receipts, not. the capital expenditure. Courts have often observed that it
may conclusively be judged that a receipt is a capital or'a revenue,receipt. Decided cases.merely illustrate
and not all are. perfect guides,
The distinction between capital and revenue receipts. is much more difficult than. between capital and
revenue expenditure. There are no hard and fast rules which may help in determining whether a receipt
is a capital or a revenue receipt.
Whether expenditure is incurred solely to earn profit Gr Whether it is a capital. expenditure depends in
each‘case onthe nature of business, commercial practice; the nature‘of the expenditure and other relative
circumstances. 140 rigid rulés can be laid down in this connection.
Debt versus equity
Debt.and equity classification is also very important for tax purposes because servicing of debt through
interest payment is an allowable: tax deduction but servicing of equity through dividend is: not allowable
tax deduction. In order-to maximize tax benefit at times corporates structure their balance sheet gearing
or debt-equity mix in such way that it can achieve highest tax benefit.
1.11 Tax and income tax
Income tax is tax.on income. Section 2(21) of the Income Tax Act,.2023 defines tax as follows: “tax"
means tax payable on income and includes any additional tax, excess profit tax, penal tax, super tax,
penalty, interest, fees, or other charges leviable or payable under the Act".
1.12 Different-rates of tax
The different tax rates for different types of assessee for the:assessment year 2023-24 are.as follows:
(1) Tax rates for individual, partnership firm and Hindu Undivided Family:
The threshold limit of total Income not liable to Income:tax for the assessment year 2023-24 stands:at Tk.
3,50,000.
Tax exempted ceiling of income for female assessee, and senior citizens ageing 65 or above is Tk.
4,00;000 and that for 3rd gender assessee, handicapped/disabled persons is Tk. 4,75,000 and for
gazated war wounded freedom fighter is Tk. 5,00,000 for the assessment year 2023-24. The threshold
limit in case of'parents or legal guardian of any person with disability will be Tk..50,000 more. If both father
and mother-of'the disabled pérson is assessee then any one will avail this benefit.

Page | 30.

The 6 tier tax rates গি-076:3859659া17917168।-2023-24 are given below:
8 | Onrestorincome [25%
If the assessee is an owner of‘any-small and cottage industry or engaged in such kind of activities ‘at less
developed / least developed area as specified by the NBR, he/she will be eligible to have a tax rebate on.
‘such income.at following rates:
(a). If production / turnover increase by more than 15% but less than 25% comparing to previous year,
‘then 5% tax rebate will be allowed;
(b) If production / turnover increase by more than 25% comparing to:previous year, rate of rebate will be.
10%.
(2) Tax rates for companies
Applicable tax:rates for companies. for the Assessment year:2023-24 are as follows:
Nature of company
Publicly traded Transferred over 10% of share capital by IPO 20.0%
company” Transferred up to 10% of share by IPO 22.5%
Non-publicly traded company* 27:5%
One. person company (OPC)* 22.5%
financial institutions: Non-listed 40.0%
Marchant bank 37.5%
Cigarette/tobacco manufacturer 45.0%
Mobile operators Non-listed 45.0%
Listed (by offering at least 10% of share capital and pre- 40.0%
initial public placement’ shall hot.exceed 5%),
*Compafiy’ tax rate shall be 2:5% higher if all income is not received, and every single. transaction for
above Tk: 500;000 and annual expense & investment over Tk. 3,600,000 are not made through bank
transfer.
(3) Tax rates for Trust, Fund, Association of Persons (AoP) and other taxable entity, other than
company, shall be 27.5% subject to above conditions.
(4) Tax rate on dividend income for assessment year 2023-24:
(a) For company receiving dividend -
(i) If dividend received'from a company registered under Company Act 1994 or any profit emitted
outside Bangladesh by a foreign company, the tax rate on dividend income will be 20%.
Page | 31

(ii) 10%. to. 15% on profit remitted outside Bangladesh by a foreign company with whom there: is
Double: Taxation Avoidance Agreement with. Bangladesh.
(b) For assessee. other than companies -
(i) Resident and non-resident Bangladeshi individual, firm etc. -Normal slab rate.
(ii) Non-resident foreigner individual- @ 30%.
(5) Tax rate for non-resident foreigner is straight 30%.
(6) Tax rate on income from capital gain (Paragraph 1 of the Seventh Schedule):

(1)Companies at 15%.

(2)Other assesses: In the event‘of the sale of capital assets within 5 years of acquisition, the tax will
be levied at the regular slab rate. If the sale. of capital assets. occurs after 5 years of acquisition, a
tax rate of 15% will be applicable on the capital. gains.

(7)Tax rate:on winning from lotteries, puzzles, card, online games, or‘similar games is 25%.
1.13 Liability to pay tax
A. Individuals
" Income tax:.An individual may be liable to pay tax on the following income:

- income:from employment:

- income:from rent

- income from agriculture

- agricultural income

- income from business

- capital gain.

- income from financial property, and

- income:from other sources:
An individual used to bé taxed annually of his. total income. at the rate prescribed at ‘the Financé Act
enacted every year.
B. Partnership
A.partnership is a group of persons carrying on a business together with a. view to making profit.
Partnership firm is taxable. Tax is to be calculated at normal slab rate. Share income.from the partnership
firm is to be added with each partner’s personal income. After tax computation of the partner a portion of
tax to be deducted at average rate based on taxed share income as per Sixth Schedule, Part-1, and
Paragraph-15.
C. Companies
A company is a legal person who is legally separated from its owners (shareholders) and its. managers
(directors). [01076 purpose of income tax, the meaning of company is defined under section 2(31) of the.
Income Tax Act, 2023.
A. company. is liable to pay income tax, the rate being determined with reference to the Finance Act
enacted in évery financial year.

Page | 32

1.14 Tax liability on income

The tax is payable in the following year i.e., assessment year on income earned during an income year.
However, there are.provisions for payment of taxes in advance.during the income year, such:as;deduction
of taxes at source and advance payment of taxes under Part -7 of the ITA, 2023.

Under section 2 (15)."income year’, means financial year immediately preceding the assessment year
and includes:

(a) the period beginning with the date of setting up of a business and ending with the thirtieth day of
June following the date of setting up of such business;

(b) the period begirining with the date oh which a source of income newly’ comes into existetice and
ending with the thirtieth. day. of June following the date on which such new source. comes into
existence;

(c) the period beginning with the first day of July and ending with the date of discontinuance of the
business or dissolution of the unincorporated body or liquidation of the company, as the case: may
be,

(d) the period beginning with the first day of July and ending with the date of retirement or death of a
participant of the Unincorporated body;.

(6) the period immediately following the date. of retirement, or death, of a participant of ‘the.
unincorporated body and ending with the date of retirement, or death, of another participant or the:
thirtieth day of June following the date of the retirerient, or'death, as‘the case may be;

(f) in the case of bank, insurance, financial institution or its affiliates, ‘the period of 12 months.
commencing from the first-day of January of the relevant year; or

Provided that the DCT may'allow a different financial year for'a company'‘which is.a subsidiary, including
a subsidiary thereof, or holding company of a parent company incorporated outside Bangladesh or a:
branch or liaison office'thereof if such company’requires to follow-a different financial year forthe: purpose
of consolidation of its accounts with the parent company:

1.15 Some significant issues of income tax

Assessment year:

Assessment. year means the year following the financial year,.i.e., income year. Thus, the assessment.
yearalways begins:on 1st July and ends on 30" June every year.. This:period is also known as the financial
year. Accordingly, it is the current financial year in which income of the immediately preceding financial
yéar (known. as income year) is assessed.

As per section 2(24) of the ITA, 2023; the term "assessment year" means the period of twelve
months:commencing on the first day of July every year and includes any deemed assessment year

as: per provision ofthe. Act.

From the following example, we.can see how to find out'the assessment year:

30.06.2021 (other than bank; insurance, and financial 2020-21 2024-22

institution)

31.12.2020 (For bank, insurance and financial 2020-21 2021-22

institution)

Page | 33

Exceptions to the rule of assessment year:

Generally, income is taxed in the. subsequent year to the income year. But, in certain cases, to protect.

the interests of revenue, the income is taxed in the year of earning itself. Thus, in those cases. the.

assessment year and the income year are the same. The exceptions to the normal rule of assessment
year.are discussed as under:

(a) Income of discontinued business [section 191]: Where any business or profession‘is discontinued
in any assessment year, the income of the period from the expiry of the last income. year up to the
date of such discontinuance may be charged to tax'in that assessment year.

(b) Persons leaving Bangladesh [section 193]: When it appears to the Assessing Officer that an
individual may leave Bangladesh and 1785 170 intention to return, the total income of such individual
for the. period from the expiry of the income year in relation to the current assessment year up to the
probable date of his departure from Bangladesh is chargeable:to tax in current assessment year itself.

(c) Income of non-resident shipping companies and airlines [section 259 and 260]: Section 259
and 260 of the. ITA, 2023, provides for the taxation of income of non-resident shipping companies
and airlines in the year in which they ‘earn their income:in Bangladesh, provided that such companies:
do not have any representative here.

Different classes of assessee: 7 a

As per ITA, 2023, asséssee is a person who is liable to. pay any stim under-the Income Tax Act, 2023

or in respect.of whom the proceedings have been under this Act. The.below diagram depicts the different.

classes of assessee:
Page | 34

Individual:
a
_ Hindu‘ Undivided‘Family:
S
g — ‘Association’of Persons.
a
Ba
n Zz co
Spelt Fund মার
® ০ -
ঠ ০ —————
ক Local-Authority:
(erty ]
— Attificial'JuridicallRetson
= i ve nee ae 4, .
ae ৬ Non:-resident
তে 5 a না Ed RSE Ln
. & 5 ; মা Bangladeshi:
conn —
2 0 ‘Non -resident
০ foreigner:
Residential:status of an assessee:
Section 2(45) defines. the term ‘resident’”” as:follows: - ‘Resident’, in respect of any income: year, means-
(a) An individual who has been in Bangladésh-
(i) fora period of, or for periods amounting jin all to, 183-days-or more in that year; or
(ii) for a period of, or'for periods amounting in all'to 90 days or more.in that year having previously
been in Bangladesh for a period of, or for periods amounting in all to 365 days or more during
4 years preceding that'year;
(b) ‘a Hindu un-dividend family, firm or other association of persons, the: control and management of
‘whose affairs is situated wholly or partly ‘in Bangladesh in that year; and
(c) .a Bangladeshi company or any other company the control and management of whose affairs is
situated wholly in Bangladesh in that year; and, under section 2(4), ‘non-resident’ means a person
who jis:not a resident.
It is important to note here that the concept of resident.as defined in the Income Tax Act has nothing to
do with the. nationality of a particular individual. A ‘foreign national may be treated as ‘Resident’ for a
particular year if he or she fulfills the legal requirements as above, whereas a Bangladeshi national may
be treated:as. a ‘Non-resident’ if he, 01516 does not fulfill the said requirements.
Page | 35

To test residential status of an individual, the following flow chart will be helpful:
Non-resident. Non -resident
Bangladeshi (NRB) Foreigner, (NRF)
| Yes 1 No
Is the assessee is Bangladeshi, citizen?
An individual A
stays in
a | | No.
183 days ormore | NO | 90 days or more [365 days or more |
during the income . during the | | during 4 immediately
year? income: year? preceding years?
Yes Yes.
In casé if-an individual is found to be resident in more than.oné country due to his/her physical préserice,
‘normally ‘tie breaker rule’ is applied..As per this rule first it need to be:ascertained which country is his/her
citizénship. If it is found that he/she 15. ৪ citizen of both countries, then it shall be ascertained where is:
his/her habitual residence is.
Bangladeshi resident company
Section 2(61) defined Bangladeshi company as those company formed and registered under the
Companies.Act 1994 as well as established or constituted by or under any Bangladeshi law and having
its registered office in Bangladesh. As per Section 2(45(c)) of ITA, 2023 all.such Bangladeshi company
as: well as any other company the ‘control and management’ of whose affairs 19. situated wholly in
Bangladesh in that year shall be treated as Bangladesh resident.
Control and management
Control and Management normally involve holding of directors. meeting, physical undertaking and
subjects of trade etc. It. can happen that’a:company is resident in one country but the:trading is undertaken
in another country. In India the term used is "place of effective management", which means a place where
key management and commercial decisioris that are: necessary ‘for the conduct of business of an entity
as:a whole are; in substance made. Control of a business not necessarily’ means from where the actual
trading or physical business activities are conducted. A fundamental case on this matter is De 8665
Consolidated Mines Ltd v Howe where a South African incorporated mineral company is determined as
having resident of London, UK. This matter is also elaborated further’ in various avoidance of double
taxation treaty prepared under OECD guidelines.
Taxation implication of resident or non-resident
Page | 36

Determination of residential status of an assessee has a: significance bearing on the tax liability as
incidence of income tax varies according to the residential status of an assessee. In this regard we can
consider‘the following issues:

1. To détermine'the.amount of total income: Determination of total income is different for résidents. and
non-residents. Global income of a resident is deemed as his “total income”. Whereas only income
earned in Bangladesh of a non-resident is deemed as his “total income”.

ll. To determine minimum limit-of taxable. income: A. resident:and non-resident Bangladeshi has to pay
tax. ‘if his total income is more than Tk. :3,50,000 as per the Finance Act (in case of women, and
elderly citizens being 65 years old, the limit is Tk. 4,00,000, for 314 gender and disable persons the
limit is Tk. 475,000 and for war wounded freedom fighter the limit is Tk. 5,00,000).. The threshold
limit in case, of parents or legal guardian of any person with disability will be Tk. 50,000 more. If
both father and mother of the disable person is assessée then anyone will avail this béfefit. But for
a non-resident foreigner such. minimum limit is not applicable.

ll. Tax rate: For an individual being a.resident or non-resident Bangladeshi tax is calculated using the
rates ‘applicable: for various. levels of income. ‘Such as, for first: Tk. 3,50,000 @ 0%, for next. Tk.
1,00,000 @ 5%, next’ Tk. 300,000 @10%, next Tk. 400,000 @15%, next Tk. 500,000 @ 20% and
rest of the income @25%. But a non-resident foreign individual has to pay tax @. 30%.

|||. Investment:tax credit: An individual being a resident or non-resident Bangladeshi gets ‘tax credit on
investment allowance. But, for a non-resident foreigner no tax credit is applicable.

IV. Tax liability: The average tax rate applicable for a resident and non-resident Bangladeshi is' less
than ‘that of a non-resident foreigner since tax is calctilated using different tax rates (such as 5%,
10%, 15%, 20% and 25%). But a non-resident foreigner must pay tax @30%.

Thus, determination of résidential status of an assessée has a significant bearing on the tax liability as

total income; and tax rate are-found to vary according to the residential status of an assessee.

Impacts of residential status in assessing income:

Determination of residential status of an assessee has:a significant bearing on the tax liability as inciderice

of income tax varies according to the residential status of an assessee.as per section 26 of the ITA, 2023.

Therefore, ‘the scope of total income varies according to the residential status. of an assessee. These

‘provisions may be summarized as under:

; . To be taxed or not

Income received or deemed to be. received in Bangladesh

Income accrued or-arose-or deemed to accrue or arise in Taxable Taxable

Bangladesh

Income accrued or-arose-outside Bangladesh Non-taxable

Worked example - 1.1

Mr. Uzzal, an Indian citizen, stayed in Bangladesh from 1st:August 2022 to 31st December 2022 and left

for'London. What will be his residential status: in the income: year 2022-237

Page | 37

Solution
Mr. Uzzal is a non-resident since. his stay in Bangladesh during income year 2022-23 is [31 +30+31
+30+31] = 153 days which is less'than required 183 days.
Worked example - 1.2
Mr. Atif, a Bangladeshi citizen, stayed in Bangladesh from 1* July 2022 to 31st December 2022. and left
for Japan. What'will be his: residential status in the income year:2022-23?
Solution.
Mr. Arif is a resident because he resides in Bangladesh during 2022-23. income. year is
[81+31430+31+30+31] = 184 days, which is more than required 183 days:
Worked example — 1.3
Mr. Akash stayed in Bangladesh from 19: September 2022 to 318! January 2023 and left for Trinidad. He
came back on 1st May 2023 and still staying in Bangladesh. What will be his residential status in the
income year 2022-23?
Solution
Mr. Akash is a resident because. he resides in Bangladesh. September 2022 to January 2023
[30+314+30+31+31] 2153 days and from 1st May to 30" June 2023 [31+30] = 61 days. In total he stayed
for [153+61] =214 days in the income year:2022-23, which is more:than required 183 days.
Worked example — 1.4
Mr. Rakesh Jason, a citizen of USA, has: been staying in Bangladesh since 1st, January 2018. He leaves
Bangladesh on 16 July 2021 on a‘visit.to USA and returns.on 1st'March, 2022. What will bé his residential
status in the income year 2021-22?
Solution
His stay in Bangladesh during the income year.2021-22 is:
July:2021. 18
March 2022 31
April 2022 30
May 2022 31
June 2022 30
Total staying 140 days
His. stay in proceeding 4 income years:
2020-21 365
2019-20 366
2018-19 365:
2017-18 184 [From 1% January 2018 to 301 June. 2018]
Total 1,277 days

As. his stay was more than 90-days in the income year 2021-22 and more than 365-:days.in the preceding
4 years, he is resident.,

Page | 38.

৮/০11(60-.9১311016 - 1.5
Mr.Juris Reinhards, a British citizen comes every year to Bangladesh for 100 days since 2017-18 income.
year:
(a) Determine his residential status for the income. year 2021-22.
(b) Will your answer be different ifhe:comes to Bangladesh for 90 days instead of 100:days:every year?
Solution
(a) He-is:a resident-as he stayed in Bangladesh’for 100 days:(more than required 90:days) in‘the income
year 2021-22 and:400 days (100 x 4) (more than required 365 days) in the-preceding:4 income years
i.é., 2017-18, 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-21.
(6) Yes, the answer will different. He-will, in'this-case, be a non-resident as he stayed in Bangladesh for
90.days (equal to. required minimum 90 days).in the iricome year 2021-22 but 360.days (9004) (less
than required 365 days) in the preceding 4 income years i.e., 2017-18, 2018-19, 2019-20 and 2020-
21 as he failed to fulfill the required conditions.
Worked example — 1.6
Mr. Jashim Uddin was outside Bangladesh from 20'"August, 2020 for an employment ‘contract valid for
two years, i.e., from 1*August, 2020 to 31% July, 2022. Mr: Jashim Uddin did not come to Bangladesh. at
any time during the year 2021. He finally came to Bangladesh on 10" January, 2022 and did not go back.
Determine his. residential status for the income year 2021-22.
Solution
Total number of days Mr. Jashim Uddin stayed in Bangladesh during respective years:
2021-22 (From. 10" January, 2022 ‘to,30' June, 2022): [22+28+31+30+31+30) = 172 days.
2020-21 (From 19 July, 2020 to.20" August, 2020): [31 +20) = 51 days.
2019-20 (From 1% July, 2019'to 30" June, 2020) = 365 days
2018-19 (From 1% July, 2018 to 30" June, 2019) = 365 days
2017-18 (From 1১ July, 2017 to 30June, 2018) = 365 days
Mr.Jashim Uddin is a resident since he fulfills the second condition. His duration, of stay in Bangladesh
during the income year 2021-22 is. 172 days which is more than required 90 days in that ‘year, and
[51+365+365+365)=1,146 days during previous 4 years which is more than required 365 days.
Worked example - 1.7
Mr. Jayed provides the following particulars of his petiod of stayin Bangladesh over last 6 Years:
| Year Days |
2016-17 40
2017-18 55
2018-19 182
2019-20 200
2020-21 94
2021-22 110
a) Determine his residential status for the income year 2021-22.
b) What'will happen if he stays for'85 days in the year 2021-22?
9). What will happen if he stays 0180 days in the year 2019-20?
0) What'will happen if-he stays for 185 days in the year 2021-22 and total 360 days during, last four
years?
Page | 39

Solution
a) Mr. Jayed is a resident since. he fulfills the second condition. His period of stayin Bangladesh during
the income year 2021-22 is 110 days: which is more than required 90 days. in that year, and
[55+182+200+94] = 531 days during previous 4 years which is more than required 365 days.
b) Mr. Jayed would be a.non-resident since he doesn't fulfill the second condition. His stay in Bangladesh
during income. year 2021-22 is 85 days. Which is less than required 90 days in'that year, although he
stayed [55+182+200+#94] = 531 days during previous 4 years which is more than required 365 days.
c) Mr. Jayed is a resident since: he fulfills the second condition. His stay in Bangladesh during income
year 2021-22 is:110 days which is more, than required 90 days in that year’ and his: total stay during
previous four years is 411 days [55+182+80+94] which is more than the required 365 days.
d) Mr: Jayed would be a:resident'since he fulfills the first;condition. His stay in Bangladesh during income
year 2021-22 is 185 days which is more than required 182 days of the first condition. In.such ৪ ০৪০০,
is not important to know regarding his. stay during 4 preceding years.
Worked example — 1.8
Alex. Deliveries 15:8৪ partnership firm whose
(a) Control and management of affairs is situated wholly in Bangladesh.
(8) Control and management of affairs is situated partly:in Bangladesh.
(c) Control and management of affairs is situated wholly outside Bangladesh.
Determine the residential status of the firm.
Solution
(a) Resident; since control and management of affairs is situated wholly in Bangladesh.
(b) Non-resident; since control and management of affairs is not situated wholly in Bangladesh.
(c) Non-resident; since control and management'of affairs is situated wholly outside Bangladesh.
Worked example - 1.09
DBH is non-banking financial institution in Bangladésh whose
(a) Control:and management of affairs is situated wholly in Bangladesh.
(8) Control:and management of affairs is situated partly in Bangladesh.
(c) Control and management of affairs is situated wholly outside Bangladesh.
Solution
(a) Resident; since control and management of affairs is ‘situated wholly in Bangladesh.
(b) Non-resident; since control and management of affairs is situated partly in outside Bangladesh.
(c) Non-resident; since control and management of affairs is situated wholly outside Bangladesh.
Worked example — 1.10
Mr. Akanda has earned-following income'from various sources during ‘the year 2021-22:
1১ Salary'income.earned and payable in Bangladesh Tk.100,000.
2. Profit of Tk.40,000 from a business in London.
Page | 40.

3. Profit.of Tk.60,000 from a business in Singapore. The Business has been managed and controlled
wholly from Singapore.
4. Profit of Tk. 70,000 frorii.a business in Dubai has not yet béen. brought if Bangladesh.
Compute the amount of total income of Mr. Akanda, assuming that he is a
(a) Resident;
(b) Non-resident
Solution
Mr. Akanda
Income year: 2022-23;
Assessment year: 2023-24.
Computation of'total income
Resident Tk. _| Non-resident Tk.
1. Income earned in Bangladesh: Salary income 100,000 100,000
2. Foreign income:
Profit from business in London’ ‘40,000. -
60,000 -
Profit from, business in Singapore
Profit from business in Dubai 70,000 এ.
Total income 270,000 100,000
Worked example — 1.11
The following are the particulars of income of Mr. Zaman for the income year 2021-22:
1. | Rent ftom a property in Dhaka received if India Tk. 40,000
2. Income from a business in USA controlled from Bangladesh Tk. 150,000
3. Income from a business in Dhaka controlled from Pakistan Tk. 180,000.
4. Rent'from a property in Canada received there but subsequently remitted to Bangladesh: Tk. 60,000
5. — Interest from bank deposits in Canada. Tk. 20,000
6. Gifts received from his parents Tk. 45,000
Compute total income of Mr. Zaman, assuming ‘that he is a
(a) Resident;
(b) Non-resident
Page | 41]

Solution
Mr.. Zaman.
Income’ year: 2022-23
Assessment’ year: 2023-24
Computation of total income
Resident Tk. | Non-resident Tk.
. ‘40,000 40,000
Rent‘from property in Bangladesh (wherever paid)
Income from business. in USA controlled from Bangladesh aosestee ee
150,000
(as income accrues outside: Bangladesh)
Income from business.in Dhaka coritrolled from Pakistan (as it is 180,000 180,000
received in Bangladesh)

Interest on bank deposits at Canada 20,000 wecseceeee
Total 20,000) 2,20,000
income
Note-1: Rent froma property in Canada received there bu
‘subsequently remitted to Bangladesh Tk. 60,000 is exempted from
payment of tax as per 6" Schedule (Part —1) para-17.

Note-2: Gift is not income.

Worked example — 1.12

From the following particulars of Mr. Rahman for the income: year 2021-22, compute total income
if he is resident or non-resident:
a. Income from employment received in Bangladesh for services rendered in Afghanistan Tk. 40,000.
b. Income from profession in Bangladesh, but received in Nepal Tk. 150,000
০. Profits.earned from business. in Chittagong Tk. 60,000.
d. Property income in South Africa Tk.1,80,000 (out of which Tk. 90,000 was.remitted to Bangladesh)
e. Income from.agriculture in Bhutan Tk. 20,000

Solution

Mr. Rahman
Income year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24.
Computation of total income

Resident Tk| Non-resident Tk.

Income in Bangladesh

(a),Income from employment received in Bangladesh 40,000, 40,000

:(b): Income from profession accrues in Bangladesh, 150,000. 150,000

(c) Profits earned from business in Chittagong 60,000 60,000
Foreign income: 90,000 oe
‘(a) Property income in South Africa

(6) Income: from-agriculture in Bhutan 20,000 oe

Page | 42

f ae pe eT Ce Be TES al তা! নর ত্য Lee ht <7 Yo aoe TK : <7.
eee a en oe ৷
aes পে ce = nN an + 2১ ae নাতে we ক ক me

Chapter 2

Tax Administration and Taxes Appellate Tribunal
|[Contents

Introduction

Examination context

Topic list
| 2.1 | Various income tax authorities
: 2.2 | Appointment of income tax authorities ।
2.3 NBR and its functions |
| 2.4 | Subordination and control of ificome tax authorities :
| 2.5 | Power and functions of income tax authorities |
| 2.6 | Taxes Appellate Tribunal i
| 2.7 | Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR) -_ EE
Self-assessment questions
|[Introduction

Learning objectives

দ Identify the different income tax authorities

= Powers.and functions of NBR. and other income tax authorities

=» Powers and functions of the Taxes Appellate Tribunal.

Practical significance

There are. presently 15 classes of income tax authorities. Each class of authorities has definite functions:
and responsibilities.

Page | 43

Taxes. Appellate Tribunal is not the income tax authority. The power and functions of the Tribunal are
normally exercised by its Benches.constituted by the President:of the Taxes Appellate Tribunal.
Understanding of the structure of income tax.authorities and the Tribunal’s: procedures are essential for
both tax advisers and the assessee for dealing the tax'matters when required.

Stop and think:

Do you have. the clear idea of’the iricome tax authorities? Did you know’that in case of practical income
tax cases, the knowledge on the tax authorities is very important?

Working context

The knowledge on the administrative structure of income tax authorities and the Tribunal’s. procedures:
covered by'this chapter-are important for both the taxpayers and tax advisers to deal with it:

On behalf of assessee, the accountants are sometimes required to assist. in submission of tax return,
hearing to the court etc., so they should have a clear idea about income tax 80070110653 and its powers
and functions and ‘the Tribunal’s procedures in their mind to assist their clients in resolving relevant. tax:
‘issues.

Syllabus links

The topics covered in this chapter are important to'your understanding of income tax.authorities and The
Taxes, Appellate Tribunal.
\[Examination context

Exam requirements.

In the examination, candidates may be required to:

ঘদ Show the structure of various income tax authorities,

s Discuss the appointment procedures of income tax authorities

» Mention'the powers and ‘functions of different'income tax. authorities

» — Identify the Taxes Appellate: Tribunal.

Question practice.

For question practice on this topic, please go to the-suggested answers of this chapter.

2.0 ADMINISTRATION AND. TRIBUNAL

Section overview

> There-shall be 15 classes of'income tax authorities for the purposes of the Act.

> NBR is the highest. income tax.authority and Inspector is the lowest authority.

> Each.class of authorities has definite powers and functions.

> Government shall constitute a Taxes:Appellate Tribunal consisting of a President and other members.
> The procedures followed by the Taxes Appellate. Tribunal in disposing of the appeals have been

__ Specified in the Taxes Appellate Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 1985.
‘> The.procedure followed by‘the.Alterriate Dispute Resolution (ADR) to resolve disputes.
Page | 44

2.1 Various income tax authorities.
Depending on the functions, income tax: authorities may be classified into two major:groups, namely.
|. Administrative: Executive looking after the overall tax administration
||. Quasi-Judicial: They are not income tax, authority, only exercising judicial function in appeal cases
INCOME TAX AUTHORITY.
; a , Administrative | :Quasi-)idicial: > i
on i
i ররর 71 র305738-85313 ofiRevente ..", 77৭ “Faxes Appellate: Tribunal --20 i
Essdcveniaecaivasacieasonissunssciosiencanaiieuinecisbeschsiaistaiee মি
। mies Director-General of Inspection (Taxes), ws !
i f° = Commissioner of Taxes (LTU): 7 galls :
i rs dvoTM: DiréctorsGeneral (Training): ৮ 0001 aS i
i a 7) &Dikector’General (EG). » ae of) BIR Ag i
Lt Usa Gommissioner“of Taxes - ০০৬ ah ০১০ ৮৭১১০ i
i ১ = Gomimissioner of Taxes (appeals). =°° 85,75 : i
Hy দশ 1 দা ১.৬ ROS TO up । 3
i i Additional:-Commissioners:of Taxes 75 rf 0: পুত i
i 3, ” র্‌ “Appellate Additional Commissioner. Of Taxes: / :
; <a! a. Inspecting Joint’ Commissioner: 2185. ১
i “s="a Appellate Joint: Commissioner: of, Taxes “““""""" i
হু eee Cee ই গর লা মল লা লা] হৃ
[সস প্‌
2 ‘s, Deputy. Commissioner: of Taxes.
13 UN wets we ২, . !
| [2:1 = Assistant Commissioner of Taxes:
« Extra-Assistant Commissioner of Taxes
। = lfspector of Taxes: |
2.2 Appointment of income tax authorities: section 5
(1) Income. tax: authorities shall be appointed in accordance with applicable law, rules and
regulations. [section 5(1)).
(2) Board may appoint any person as income tax. authorities. in accordance with rules as may be.
prescribed [section 5(2)].
(3) Board may appoint required number of employees subject to organizational structure [section
5(3)].
2.3 NBR and its functions
National Board of Revenue (NBR) is the highest executive tax authority. It is a.statutory body. and its.
members are appointed by the Government to manage, control and supervise the whole income tax
Page | 45

department. The NBR is empowered to make necessary rules concerning income tax matters: It cannot
act by issuing any instructions. to be construed as interference: to the authority of judicial personnel like
the Commissioner of Taxes (Appeals), Appellate: Additional Commissioner of Taxes, Appellate. Joint
Commissioner of Taxes:and the Taxes Appellate Tribunal when'they exercise their judicial powers.
Main functions of the NBR

1. To declare any foreign un-incorporated association as a company for the purposes of the Act..
[section, 2(31)(Ta)]

2.. To delegate powers of any‘income tax authority to another income tax authority [section 6]

3. To determine. the functions. of the Director General (Inspection), the Director General (Central
Intelligence-Cell), to determine:and redetermine area.of income tax authority, to transfer of power
‘and jurisdictions of one income tax authority to another'income tax authority [section 8]

4. To determine the place of assessment of assessee by issuing order [section 8]

5.. To issue: orders, directions or instructions to all officers and other persons erigaged in the:
performance: of any functions under the Act. [section 10]

6. To direct to deposit withheld income’tax to the Government exchequer within the spécified time.
[sec 146]

7... To recognize and authorize practicing chartered accountant, practicing cost and management
accountant, income tax practitioner and practicing members, of other accounting bodies: for
appearance in income tax matters as authorized representative of the assessee. [section 327]

8: To take disciplinary action against any authorized representative in case of professional
misconduct. [section 327]

9. To allow tax holiday or tax exemption to approved undertakings. [sec. 85]

10. To accord and withdraw recognition to Superannuation Fund, Gratuity Fund and Pension Fund.
[2nd Schedule part 1, 2 &.3]

11. To reward employees of the tax department or any other person for detection, of tax evasion and
collection therefrom. [section 340]

2.4 Subordination and control of income tax authorities: section 7

Board, by issuing order may make rules related to.subordination and control ‘of income tax.authorities.
2.5 Power and functions. and jurisdiction of income tax authorities: section 8

As per'section 8(1), subject to the provision of the Act, member (tax) can apply such power and.
implement such act which power and act’can be done by the Board under this act.

(2) the Director-General of Inspection shall perform the following functions, namely:

(i) carry out inspection of income tax cases;

(ii) Make proposal for rectification of tax policy and development of tax administration area based on
inspection ;

(iii). Furnish report including comments :and recommendations as prescribed by the Board.

(iv) Other functions:as may be assigned to them by the Board.

Page | 46

(3) the Director General of Central Intelligence Cell shall perform the following functions, namely: -
|. Carry out intelligence works to gather information about taxpayers;
II. Analyze information gathered through intelligence work. vis-a-vis concerned income tax
records;
|||. Detect tax evasions, concealments of income and offences as described in part 13 and
IV. Carry out investigations to prove tax evasion or concealment or any other irregularities
relating to taxes and to collect evidences in support of tax offences or tax frauds for:
recovery of tax-with penalty and to: suggest prosecutions in fit cases;
Vz 0 carry out functions as authorized by: any other law.
(4) Thé Board, by order'may detéermine:and redetermine:area of income’tax authority, to transfer of power
and jurisdictions of one income tax authority to another income tax authority ৰা
(5) Abovementioned transfer'can be made any'level of normal activities-and subsequent activities can be
taken at which level such transfer was made..
(6) The. Board, by-order may fix'the. place of-asseéssment of the assessee.
Exercise of jurisdiction by successor: section 9
Where, in respect‘of any proceeding under'the Act, an income tax'authority is succeeded by another, the:
income tax. authority so succeeding may continue, the proceeding from the stage at which it was left by
his predecessor.
Officers etc. to follow instructions of the Board: section 10
All officers and other persons engaged in the performance of any functions under the Act shall, inthe
matter of discharging those functions, observe .and follow such orders, directions or instructions as the:
Board may issue:from time to time.
However, no order, directions or instructions shall be givén so as to intetfere with the discretion, of the.
Appellate: Joint. Commissioner or the Commissioner (Appellate) in the exercise ‘of their appellate:
functions.
Guidance to the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes: section 11
In the course of any proceedings under the Act, the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes may be assisted,
guided or instructed by any income tax authority to whom he is subordinate or any other person
‘authorized ‘in this behalf by the Board.
Exercise of assessment functions by the Inspecting Joint Commissioners and the Inspecting
Additional Commissioners: section 12
The Commissioner may, with prior approval of the Board, by general or a special order in writing, direct.
that in respect of all or any proceedings relating to specified persons of classes or persons within his
jurisdiction, to the effect that power and activities of any income tax authority shall be exercised by the
immediate superior income tax authority.
Page | 47

Any abovementioned order shall be deemed to have been. made immediately ‘to the higher income tax

authority.

2.6 Taxes Appellate Tribunal

Establishment of Appellate Tribunal: section 13

(1) For the purpose exercising the functions of the Taxes Appellate Tribunal under the Act, the
Government shall establish a Taxes Appellate Tribunal consisting of a President and such other
members as the Government may, from time to time, appoint [section 13(1)].

(2) A person shall not be appointed as ‘a member of'the Taxes Appellate. Tribunal unless-

(i) he Was-or is 4 member ofthe Board; or

(ii) he is, was.or has been a District Judge; or

(iii) he Was.a Commissioner of Taxes; or

(iv) he is antax lawyer under section 327 and practiced professionally'in income tax offices for a period
not léss than 10 years; or

(v) he is a professional legislative expert having experience-for:a period not less than 10 years inthe
process of-drafting and making financial and tax laws; or

(3) The:Government shall appoint a member of the Appellate Tribunal to be the President thereof who
is a member of the Board or holds: current charge of:a member of the Board [section 13(3)].

Exercise of power of the Tribunal by Benches: section 14

(1) Unless the president in any particular case or class of cases otherwise directs, the powers and
functions of the Appellate Tribunal shall be exercised by Benches of the Appellate Tribunal,
heréinafter referred to as 86170, to be. constituted by the President.

(2) A Bench shall be ‘so-constituted that it has not less than two members.

(3) Atleast.one. member of the every Bench constituted under:sub-section (1) shall be appointed from
below person:

a) Member of National Board of Revenue, or
b) Commissioner of taxes.

Decision of Bench: section 15

(1) Subject to. the provisions: of sections (2) and (3), the decision of bench in any case or’ on.any. point
shall be given in accordance with the opinion of the majority of its members.

(2) Any point on which the members of a Bench are equally divided shall be. stated in writing and shall
be réferred by the president.to one or more other: members of the Appellate Tribunal for hearing arid
the point shall be decided according to the majority of the members of the Appellate Tribunal who
have héard it including those who first heard it.

(3) Where there: are ‘only two members of the Appellate Tribunal and they differ in any case, the:
Government may appoint an additional member of the Appellate Tribunal for the purpose of hearing
Page | 48.

of the case and the.decision of the case shall be:given in accordance with the opinion of the majority
of the members of the Taxes Appellate Tribunal as constituted with such additional member.

Exercise of power by one member: section 16

Notwithstanding anything contained in section 14, the Government may direct that the powers and

functions: of the Appellate Tribunal shall bé exercised by any ore of its members, or members.or by two

or more: members jointly or severally.

Requlation of procedure of the Appellate Tribunal: section 15

(1) Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Appellate Tribunal shall regulate its own procedure and the.
procedure of its Benches in matters arising out.of the discharge of its function including the places
at which a Bench shall hold its sittings. [section 15]

(2) A Bench shall hold its sittings at its headquarters or such other place as the President may consider
convenient [TATP Rule 3].

(3) A Bench shall hear and determine such appeals and applications made. under’ the Act as ‘the
President may, by general or special order, direct [[ATP Rule:4].

(4) The office of the’ Tribunal, shall, subject. to any special order of the President, observe the same office
hours and holidays as the office of the Supreme Court (High Court Division): at Dhaka [TATP Rule
5]. ।

(5) The language of the Tribunal shall be English [TATP Rule 6].

Taxes Appellate Tribunal’s procedures

The procedures followed by the Taxes Appellate Tribunal in-disposing of the appeals have been specified

in the Taxes Appellate Tribunal (Procedure) Rules, 1985 (TATP Rules).

2.7 + Alternate Dispute Resolutions (ADR)

Alternate: Dispute Resolution in ITA, 2023 to resolve any dispute of an assessee lying with any income:

tax authority, Taxes Appellate Tribunal, or Court. This is done to simplify and speed up ‘dispute resolution

process. The whole process is summarized in following figure:

Page | 49

peel wt | Agetieved by an
_ - sAssessee, order of any income Concern -
| tax.authority Income tax authority
e Tribunal
Apply for ও Court |
With pending permission to start >| Where the order has been
sot .s «.. | dispute before any ADR process passed or dispute is
-|:*Assessee * | income tax pending:
i} authority; tribunal or
court
. Received the
permission to start
ADR process
; oe eee eens
Apply for _| National Board of Revenue | __ _] !
ADR ’process. (NBR) i Select/appoint !
1 the facilitator 1
1 and determine |
1 responsibility 1
Facilitator t---4
1০০০-০০-০০

Forward cop Respective
of application DCT
'
H
Arrange meeting for , No Proper \ Yes _
settlement reply /
Assessee himself or | । ADR shall not
authorized Respective DCT or continue
বট Representative
representative
Facilitator should Facilitator should
communicate thie record details of
result within 15 No " Agreement'is ~ Yes the result and
days.from-the date |” ২ reached wholly >| communicate to
of disagreement-to or partly 7 tne assessee and
all related parties the respective
DCT
epAssessee may appeal « - 5 Result is final and, ,~.
= to the proper authority. sqcannot be.challenged,,.,
Page | 50.

An.assessee may apply for resolution of the dispute through the ADR process if aggrieved by.an order of
an income tax authority or if a dispute is pending before. any income-tax authority, tribunal or court: In
case of any pending dispute, the assessee is required to get permission from the authority where it is
pending in writing before applying for ADR and if approval is received and assessee applies for ADR, the
matter‘shall remain'stayed during: ADR negotiation process.
To resolve dispute in an alternative way, the Board may select:or appoint Facilitator and determine his
duties and responsibilities. The assessee shall be allowéd to fiegotiate himself personally‘or along with
an authorized representative, with the Commissioner's Representative forthe concerned dispute under
the facilitation and, supervision of such Facilitator.
Upon receiving the application of ADR, the Facilitator shall forward a copy of the application to the
respective Deputy Commissioner of Taxes and.also call for his opinion on the grounds:of the application.
If the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes fails to give his, opinion regarding fulfillment of the conditions, the
Facilitator may. notify in writing the applicant and the Commissioner of Taxes. or the Commissioner's
Representative.to attend the meetings for settlement of disputes on a date mentioned in the notice. Where.
an agreement is reached, either wholly or in part, between the assessee and the Goimissioner's
Representative, the Facilitator shall record, in writing, the details of ‘the agreement sign and shall
communicate the same to the.asséssee and the concerned Deputy Comniissioner:of Taxes.
However, wheré no agreement is reached or the dispiité resolution is 6nded in disagreement between
the assessee and the concerned Commissioner's Representative for noncooperation of either of the
parties,. thé Facilitator shall communicate it within fifteen days from the date of disagreement, ‘to the.
applicant and the Board; the: concerned court, Tribunal, appellate authority and income tax authority, as
the case may’be, about such unsuccessful dispute resolution.
Where an agreement is reached, it shall be. binding on both the parties and it cannot be challenged in
any authority, Tribunal or court either by the assessee or any other income tax authority. Where an
agreement is not reached, the assessee may prefer an appeal in following manner:
Dispute.arises: out of an order of Appeal to
Deputy Commissioner of Taxes. Appellate Joint Commissioner:of Taxes,
or
Appellate Additional Gommissioner of Taxes
or
Commissioner of Taxes (Appeals)
Appellate Joint. Commissioner of Taxes or Taxes Appellate Tribunal
Appellate.Additional Commissioner of Taxes or
Commissioner of Taxes (Appeals)
The assesseé-applicant may also appeal to the respective appellate:authority or court fromm where he has.
got permission to apply for ADR.
Self-assessment questions
1. What are the income tax:authorities?
2. Discuss the powers and functions of the Commissioner of Taxes.
3. Discuss briefly the powers and functions of the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes:
4. How Taxes Appellate Tribunal established?
5. What are the. qualifications required for appointment as a Member of the Taxes Appellate Tribunal?
6. How ADR ean be used to: resolve the disputes?
Page | 51

ee en ee
Se ee NCE OES
LEI তত ৩৬ eS VO A er

fae Jie ee Nee hee oNed SS ই নল লক মার Bap ES
Chapter 3

Charge of income tax.
[Contents

Introduction

Examination. context

Topic list
| 3.1 Charge of incometax, 7 / ,
32. Charge of surcharge টে
: 3.3 | Charge of:additional tax |
| 3.4. | Charge of minimum tax for companies - ;
i 3.5 Charge of minimum tax for partnership firm ;
| 3.6 Charge of minimum tax for individual
i 3.7 Charge of 10% tax on stock dividend ।
| 3:8 | Charge of 10% tax on retained earnings RR |
i; 3.9 Charge of 50% tax.on the difference of investment, import, export ;
৷ 3.10 | Scope of the total incoiie ।
| 311 | (00016 0697190 0 ৪০০0৮৪6 01 ম156 | ৪ল্যা90০90, = ssses—sS
i 3.12 Same income shall not include:twice:in total income ;
| 313. দম ়ং দশ মা রা
introduction

Learning objectives
« Identify the: ways of charging income tax
2 —|llustrate the. charge of surcharge, additional tax and minimum tax
Page | 52

= Recognize the scope of total income
" Recognize the different types of deemed income
Practical significance
Income tax shall be charged levied, paid and collected at different rates in respect of the total income in
accordance with the provisions of the Act. It may be deducted at source,. or paid or-collected in advance.
The rates of tax can vary on'the basis of 'income-and types of assessee. The assessee may be required
to pay surcharge, additional tax or minimum tax depending on ‘the situation. Reduced tax rate. is. also
applicable in certain cases.
The scope of total income of:a resident and non-resident includes. the sources and forms of income of
these persons of'any income year.
Stop and think
Think about different ways of charging income tax and identify the similarity and differentiation of the
scope of income of a resident 8170 ৪ non-resident. Do you realize that the different types of unexplained
investment will be deemed as income under different heads? Do you acknowledge about the special tax
treatment in respect of some investment?
Working context
Before determining individual and corporate tax, the rate of tax and the scope of total income need to be
identified. Based on residential status the scope of total income'varies. Unexplained’ investments are also:
taxable under respective heads.
An accountant will be éxpected to understand the scope of total income, deémed income, applicable tax
rate, and special tax treatment and to give-advice on how the total income of individual and company can
be determined. This can also. suggest their clients to take the facility of special tax treatment’ by ifivesting
in those specific areas.
Syllabus links
You will be familiar with the charge of income tax:and to prepare for'the application level and also for the
case study.
Detailed knowledge on this issue helps you to understand the progression level and stage of your'study.
You will be using this knowledge again when you tackle the taxation paper later on in the Professional
Stage and it will also underpin the'technical aspects at the Advanced Stage.
Exam requirements
In the examination, candidates may be required to:
* Clarify how income tax shall be: charged_ .
= Define the surcharge, withholding tax, additional tax:and minimum tax
# Determine.scope of total income depending on the residential status.
2 Identify the income deemed to accrue or arise in Bangladesh
= Recognize different.unexplained investment'etc., deemed to be taxable income
* Demonstrate: the different category of investment for which special tax treatment are allowed
Page | 53

Question practice

For question practice on these topics, go to the.suggested question and answer.

Examiner's comments on how students tackle questions:

Students need to take care of the sources of total income including different classes of unexplained

investment, as these are required for calculation of total income of:an assessee.

3.0 CHARGE OF TAX

Section overview

> Tax shall be charged at the rate or rates according to the: Finance: Act.

‘> The.ratés of tax can be varied.on the basis:of income arid types of asséssee.

> The. assessee may be required to pay surcharge, simple interest, minimum tax etc.

“=> Tax ‘may be deducted at source, or paid or collected in advance.

> Unexplained investments can be considered under the scope of total income.

> The-scope of total income of a resident:and non-resident are-different.

Any income has to be brought under respective heads of income under-section 30 and can be charged

to tax only ifit'is so chargeable under the computing section corresponding to that head of income. The

liability to'tax:arises by virtue of this charging section which does:not ‘depend on assessment; assessment
order only quantifies the liability which is finally created by the:charging section. Following basic:principles
can be deduced from the analysis-of the charging section:

(i) Income tax is: to be charged at the rate or rates fixed for the year by the Finance Act. The liability to
tax. does not arise until the annual Finance Act is, passéd [Kamakhya Narayan Singh V CIT (1946)
ITR 683]. Section 339 provides that if on the first day of July in any year provision has not been made
by any: Act'for the charging of incorne tax for that year, the provision in force iri the immediately
preceding year or the provision proposed in the Finance Bill then. before Parliament, whichever is
more’favorable to the assessee, shall apply until the new Finance Act is passed.

(ii) Income should be calculated with reference to the income: year 800 tax rate/rates should be. the:
rate/rates applicable to respective. assessment year. The use of the expression charged both in the:
Finance Act and Income Tax Act.does not mean that. the income is.charged. to income'tax Under both.
‘the Act and Act. They are used in different senses. The tax will be charged in accordance with and
subject to the provisions. of the Income tax Act arid the said charge shall be in accordance. with ‘the
rates prescribed in the Finance Act [Kesoram Industries and Cotton Mills LTD ৮০ W. T Calcutta,
(1466) ITR, 767].

(iii) The income to be'taxed is the income of the.income year and not of the assessment year. Since tax.
is levied on the actual income of the income year, the sources must be taken as they: existed during
‘the income yéar it is immaterial whether-the source of income-actually exists in the assessmént’yéar
[Muthappa Chettian V CIT (1945) ITR, 311]. However, there are exceptions for a discontinued
business, for persons leaving Bangladesh etc. when income:year is the assessment year

(iv) The charge is on every person as stated ‘in section. 2 (46) i. e. an individual, a firm, an association of
persons, a Hindu undivided family, a local authority, a trust, a fund, a company and any other artificial
juridical person. Estoppel is a rule of evidence, not a cause of action and it cannot be the basis of
liability under the Income Tax Act. So,;.an assessment cannot be made on.a stranger to the income,
merély he agrees or désifes to bé assessed on it [Asit Kumer Ghose V CIT, ITR, 576].

Page | 54

(v) The'tax is levied on the'total income of the assessee computed in the manner laid down in specified
sections and subject to the provisions of this.Act.. It will be for the assessee to produce materials to
hold that a receipt is of a casual or capital nature not chargeable to tax and for the Revenue to
consider the materials and arrive at a reasonable conclusion.

(vi) Tax is imposed in three stages: There is the declaration of a liability that is the part of the statute
‘which determines: who is liable in respect of what. Next, there is'the;assessment liability that does:not
depend on the assessment. That ex-hypothesis has already been fixed. But. assessment:
particularizes the exact sum which a person is liable:to pay. Lastly, the recovery'comes if the person
taxed does not pay voluntarily.

3.1 Charge of income tax: section 18

(1) Income tax shall be levied, imposed, paid or collected on the basis of total income of any person. in
any income year.
(2) Subject to the provision of this Act, income tax shall be levied, impose, paid or collected at the
assessment year wise prescribed rate provided by any act passed by the Parliament.
However, income ‘tax to be charged in respect of the ifcome of a period other than the income year,
income tax shall be charged, levied, paid and collected accordingly...
(3) Under the. provision of this Act, following taxes may be levy, impose; paid or collected, namely:-
a. Tax at source;
b.. Advance. income tax:
০. Minimum tax; and
d. Any other tax.
(4) Subject to the provision of this Act, a surcharge or any other charge shall be levied, imposed or
collected at such rate and in such: manner as may be. prescribed by Act passed by the Parliament.
(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section (i.e. section 18), tax shall be charged at the rates
specified in the part 7’and seventh schedule in respéct'of-
(i) anyincome computed as ’capital gains’;
(ii) any income.computed as ‘dividend income’; and _
(iii) any’ receipt by wining of lottery, crosswofd puzzles, card games, ohline games or such naturé
game.

3.2 Charge of additional tax: section 19

Wealth Surcharge on individuals reporting net.wealth of more than Tk. 3 crore

Finance Act 2023 introduces wealth surcharge on taxes. payable before charging such ‘surcharge for

individual assessee who reports net wealth more than Tk. 4 crorein Form atthe time of-submitting income

tax return.

Wealth surcharge is to be paid on tax payable at the following rate with effect from the assessment

year 2023-24:

Page. | 55

1. 10% if net wealth exceeds Tk. 4 crore: but does not exceed 11010 crore or. ownership of more than one
motor cars or ownership of house property having an aggregate area of 8,000 sft.
2. 20% if net wealth exceeds Tk. 10 crore but does not exceed Tk.20 crore
3. 30%. if net wealth exceeds Tk. 20 crore but does: not' exceed 71050 crore,
4. 35% if it exceeds Tk.50 crore.
Illustration 1
Tax liability afterinvestment tax rebate Tk: 45,000
Net Wealth as per last assessment yéar Tk..20,78,000
Accretion in net wealth during current year Tk..8,23,000
Net wealth up to this assessment year Tk., 29;01,000.
Owner of motor car/house property No motor car/house property.
Wealth Surcharge Nil (nét'wealth is less ‘than Tk. 4 crore-and no
motor'char/house property)
Total tax liability (ho surcharge) Tk.. 45,000
Illustration 2
Tax liability afterinvestment tax rebate Tk: 160,000
Net wealth as per'last assessment year Tk..2,86,23,000
Accretion in ‘net wealth during current year Tk.,44;08,000.
Net wealth up to this assessment year Tk. 4,30,31,000
Wealth Surcharge Tk. 16,000 (10% of Tk. 160,000)
Total tax. liability (including surcharge) Tk: 176,000 (Tk. 160,000 + Tk. 16,000)
Illustration 3
Tax liability afterinvestment tax rebate Tk.,8,00,000
Net wealth as per last assessment year Tk.,8,81;23,000
Accretion in net wealth. during current year Tk: 24;08,000
Net Wealth up to this assessment yéar Tk..9;05,31,000
Wealth Surcharge Tk. 80;000 (10% of Tk. 8,00,000)
Total tax liability (including surcharge) Tk. 8,80,000 (Tk. 8,00,000 + Tk. 80,000)
3.3 Charge of additional tax: section 19
Notwithstanding, anything contained in any other provision of Income ’Tax.Act, 2023, where. any person:
employs or allows, any foreigner to work at his business‘or profession, without prior approval of competent
authority: of the Govt. such person shall be charged additional tax @ 50% of tax payable. or Tk.5,00,000
whichever is higher.
Illustration-1
Company B, a private limited company, employs-one foreign employee to Work at its factory’ who has no
valid work permit. Company B will be liable to pay additional tax in the following way:
Page | 56

Taka | Taka |]
2,00,00,0007 [|
Income tax @ 27.5%: Ps 55,00,000/
Additional tax @,50% of tax or Tk.5,00,000 whichever 27 ,50,000/
is higher
Total tax. to be paid PF | 82,50,000/
3.4 Charge of minimum tax for companies: section 18 (3) and section 163
Every company shall, irrespective of its profits or.loss.in an assessment year-for any reason whatsoever,
including the sustaining of a loss, the setting off of a loss of earlier year or years or the claiming of
allowarices or déductions (iricluding depreciation) allowed undér Income. Tax Act, 2023: be liable. to pay
minimum tax at the following rates.
Classestoffassessee) IRatejofyminimumy|taxs
fontgrossireceipt)
Manufacturer of cigarette, bidi, chewing'‘tébacco, smokeless tobacco of any 3%
other tobacco products.
Carbonated beverage | 3%
Mobile phone operator 2%
Individual other than Manufacturer of cigarette, bidi, chewing tobacco, 0.25%
smokeless tobacco or any other tobacco products
In any others case 0.60%
However, the rate would be 0.10% of gross receipt in case of new industry engaged in manufacturing of
goods for'the. 1" three income years.
For the purposes of this section, 'gross receipts' means-
(a) all receipts derived from the sale of goods;
(b) all fees or charges for rendering services or giving benefits including commissions or discounts;
(c) all‘receipts derived from any heads of income.
Illustration 1
In the assessment Year 2023-24, company X reports loss of Tk. 10,00,000 with arinual turnover of Tk.
1,00,00,000. The company is required to pay Tk. 60,000 (0.60% of Tk. 1,00,00,000) as minimum tax.
Remember, the company has: made a loss; still it requires to pay tax..
Illustration 2
In the assessment year 2023-24, company: X,..a publicly traded company, reports. taxable profit. of Tk.
1,00,000 with annual turnover of Tk. 1,00,00,000. The company is required to pay Tk. 60,000 (0.60%.of
Tk. 1,00,00,000) as minimum tax. Because tax on regular income. at regular rate amounts to Tk. 20,000
that is lower than Tk. 60,000.
Page | 57

Illustration 3
In the assessment year 2023-24, company ১0, a publicly traded company, reports taxable profit of Tk.
10,00,000 with annual tumover-of Tk. 1,00,00,000. Tax liability of the:company will be Tk:.2,00,000 (20%
of Tk. 10,00,000) applying regular tax rate which is higher than minimum tax of Tk. 60,000 (0.60% of Tk.
1,00;00,000).
Illustration 4
In the assessment year 2023-24, company A, a publicly traded company, reports ‘total income of Tk.
3,00,000 from business, house property and other sources. Annual assessed business turnover is Tk.
10,00,000, property income Tk: 2,00,000:and receipt from other sources i.e., interest on bank deposit Tk:
1,20,000.
Here, the gross receipt of the company would be:
po Heads of receipts: Amount (TK)
Receipts derived from the sale:of goods (turnover) 10,00,000
Income from house property (rental receipts not known) 2,00,000
Income-from other sources (interest on bank deposit) 1,20,000
Tax liability on regular income. at.regular tax:rate is Tk. 60,000 (20% of Tk. 3,00,000). However, minimum
tax is Tk. 7,920 (0.60% of Tk. 13,20,000). As regular tax is: higher than minimum ‘tax, tax liability: of the.
company will be Tk. 60,000.
3.5 Charge of minimum tax for partnership firm: section 18 (3) and section 163
Every partnership firm having gross receipts of more than Tk. 50,00,000/ will also be required to pay
minimum tax @0.60% on its gross receipt or tax calculated on the basis of total income. whichever is
higher.
3.6 Charge of minimum tax for individual: section 18 (3) and section 163
Every individual having gross receipts of Tk. 3,00,00,000/ or above will also be required ‘to pay minimum
tax @0.25% on its gross receipt or tax calculated on the basis of total income whichever is higher. But. if
an individual engaged in tobacco manufacturing or mobile phone:operation then the rate-would be 3% or
2% respectively.
3.7 Charge of 10% tax on stock dividend: section 23
If in an income year, the amount of stock dividend declared or ‘distributed by any listed company exceeds:
cash dividend then tax shall be payable @10% on the whole amount of stock dividend.
3.8 Charge of 10% tax on retained earnings, reserves, surplus etc.: section 22
If in an income. year, the total amount transferred to retained earnings or any fund or reserve or surplus,
called by whatever name, by any listed company which exceeds 75% of the net.income. after tax, then
tax shall be. payable @10% of the total amount’so transferred.
Page | 58

3.9 Charge of 50% tax on the difference of investment, import and export: section 20
(a) If any assessee has shown any different-amount at his income statement deviated from real import or
export value, then, 50% tax will be charged on the difference between actual and-shown value:
(b) If any assessée has shown any investment but his actual investment found lower than the disclosed
investment, then 50% tax will be charged 'on the over-statement of investment.
3.10 Scope of the total income: section 26
(1) The total income of:any income year of any person includes-
(a) in relation to a person who is a resident, all income, from whatever source derived, which-
(i) is-accrues or arises, or is deemed to accrue. or arise to him in Bangladesh during that
year; or
(ii) is accrues or arises, or is deemed to accrue or arise. to him outside: Bangladesh during
_ that year; or
(iii) is received or deemed to be received in Bangladesh by or on behalf of such person in
‘such year; or:
(iv) is received or deemed to be received outside Bangladesh by or on behalf of such person
. in-such year; or ; a .
(০) 16180011079 person‘who is a.non- résiderit, all income, from whatever source derived, Which-
(i) is accrues or arises or is. deemed to‘accrue or'arise to him in Bangladesh during that'year.
(ii) is received or deemed to: be received in Bangladesh by or on behalf of such person in
such year.
3.11 Income deemed to accrue or arise in Bangladesh: section 27
Thé following income shall be deemed to accrue oratise in Bangladesh, namely:
(1) any income which falls, under the. head ‘salaries’, wherever paid 1
a) itis earned in Bangladesh; or .
b) it is paid by the Government ora local authority in Bangladesh to a citizen of
Bangladesh in the service of such Government;or authority;
(2) any income accruing or arising, whether directly or indirectly, through or from-
a) any permanent establishment in Bangladesh;
b) any property, asset, right or other source of income including intangible’ property
in Bangladesh; or
০) transfer of any assets situated in Bangladesh:
0) the sale of any goods: or services by any electronic means to purchasers: in
Bangladesh. or
e) any intangible property used in Bangladesh.
Explanation. - For the purpose of above clause -:-
a) the shares of any company which is a resident in Bangladesh shall be deemed to be property in
Bangladesh;
b) intangible property shall be deemed to be property in Bangladesh if it is-
Page | 59

i) registered in Bangladesh; or:
ii) owned by a person that is not a resident. of Bangladesh: but has a permanent establishment in
Bangladesh to which the intangible property is attributed;

(3) The. transfer of-any: share in.a company that is. not a resident of Bangladesh shall be. deemed ‘to
be the transfer of an asset situated in Bangladesh to the extent that the value of the share:
‘transferred is directly or‘indirectly attributable to the value of any assets, in Bangladesh;

(4) any divided paid outside Bangladesh by a Bangladeshi company;

(5) any income by'way of interest payable, if stich -

a) is:payable by the Government: or
b) is payable by-a resident. However, shall not applicable in following cases if‘such loan or
borrowing:
received from outside Bangladesh; and
ii used for the purpose of carryirig on business: outside Bangladesh or for the purpose
of deriving income from a source located outside Bangladesh
c) bya person who is a non-resident where the interest is in respect of any debt incurred
or moneys borrowed and used, for the purposes ofa business or profession carried on
by'such person.in Bangladesh or for the purpose of making or earning any income from
any source in Bangladesh.

(6) any income by way of fees for technical services payable-

'৪) by'the Government: or

b) is payable by a resident. However, shall not applicable in following cases if such fee:
J received from outside Bangladesh; and
ii used for the purpose of-carrying on business outside Bangladesh or for the purpose of

deriving income from a'source located outside Bangladesh

০) bya person who is inon- resident, wheré such fees are payable in respect of services utilized.
in a business or profession carried on by: such person in Bangladesh or for the purpose of
making of earning any income from any source outside Bangladesh.

(7) any income by way of royalty payable-

a) bythe Government: or
b) is payable by a resident. However, shall not applicable in following cases if such, royalty:
received from outside Bangladesh; and
ii used for the purpose of carrying on business outside Bangladesh or for the. purpose of
deriving income from a source located outside Bangladesh
c) by aperson who is a non-resident, where. royalty is payable in respect of any right, property or
information used or services utilized for the purpose of a business or profession ‘carried on
by any such person in Bangladesh orfor'the purpose of making or earning any income from
any source in Bangladesh

(8) insurance or reinsurance premium accrued or payable by resident. or non-resident against

protéction against.any risk within Bangladesh.
Page | 60.

3.12:53116.111001116 shall not include twice in'total income: section 28
Where. any amount corisisting of éither'the whole or.a part of any income of a person has been iricluded
in his total income or the basis that it has accrued or arisen, to him-any year, it shall not be included again
in his total income. on'the ground that it is received or deemed. to be received by him in Bangladesh in
another year.
3.13 Special tax treatment in respect of some investments
a). Investment in residential building/apartment..— Frist Schedule, Part 1, para 1:
Any-sum invested by a person in purchase or construction of residential building or apartment will be
deemed to: have been explained if he pays tax at the prescribed rate per square: meter before the
conipletion of assessment.
b) Special tax treatment in respect of investment in Economic Zone or Hi-Tech Park. - Frist
Schedule, Part 1, para 2:
If any amount is inested by any company in the Economic Zone or Hi-Tech Park as Economic Zone:
declared under section 5 of the Bangladesh Economic Zone Act, 2010 or‘the Bangladesh Hi-Tech
Park Authority Act, 2010 for the purpose of production of any goods or services, any question about
‘the source of such investment shall not be raised, if in the relevant income year 10% income tax is
paid on invested amount before submitting the return.
Page | 61

See eee pe ০০০ লেন aoe ee oe @) রেপ
০6০২২ ক রণ তল লডণল

: 3 > রর . ২২৯১২১১২৯২২ Cte a ee TO oe ¥ epee

. ore বন |, তে নেক: Ss ma aan Soe gti tt: না না Cerri AChR ges ”
Chapter 4

Income from employment
|[Contents

Introduction

Examination context

Topic list
| 4.1 | Scope of income from employment ee
i 4.2 Valuation of perquisite, allowances and benefit: i
43 Determination of income derived from employee share scheme ।
“Ga Prov Brovidient fury 77 সাম sos :
| 4.5 | Non-assessable income under‘the. head “income from employment ;
নে পম =
47 | Salient points in assessment of income from 59165
|[Introduction .
Learning objectives

= — Identify the different heads of iricome.

দ Computation of income from ‘employment’.

® Definition of perquisites, allowances and benefits under employment income.

* Identify the allowable deduction under head ‘income from.employment’.

* Concept of provident'fund and other funds related to salary.

Understanding investment allowance and computing tax rebate on that.

» Computing tax liability of salaried person.

Practical significance

Income from employment is:very important for many reasons. This is a common head of income for most
of ‘the individual taxpayers. It can even be said that individual taxation depends on this: head of income.
Government collects a significant portion of tax under this: head. Thus, tax law covering income: from
employment is very significant and scope of learning is also wide. This chapter carries ‘significance for
corporate practitioners also in the sense that this expense in certain conditions. cannot be shown as

Page | 62

expense. The application of perquisites and its impact on computing company tax is also very. important.
Income from employment is the first head of income out of 7 heads of income. Out of the 7 heads, this is
a very: common head of income. Again, this head encompasses different technical;and conceptual issues:
like perquisites, provident fund and other funds where clear understanding is very important as a tax
practitioner and tax professional.
Comiputing taxable income under the head income from employment, computing investment allowance.
and testing the amount for maximum limit, computing tax rebate on investmentiallowance, understanding
the tax credit or tax deducted at sources and finally computing net'tax liability of an individuals-are some.
note able points that,is covered in this chapter and thus this chapter become very significant for the CA
students. This chapter lays the foundation of the following chapters: also.
You will find the details of the above issues in this chapter with some practical example.
Stop and think
Do you realize that the computation of taxable income. under the head ‘income from employment: is one’
of the basic‘requirements.for determining tax liability? Can you calculate the taxable income from:salary?
Do you understand the application of investment allowance in computing final tax liability?
Working context
In practice, as the accountants are.sometimes required to prepare’ their clients’ tax returns, they need to
advice the clients on how to calculate the taxable income for‘any income year. Before advising the:clients,
accountants should have the.clear concept relating to the admissible: and inadmissible expenses so that
they can deduct.or add the expenses in determining the.taxable income.
As individual assesseé is abundant and most of the: individual assessée. has. income under’ the head,
understanding this. chapter is very useful in practical life.
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are very important for computing taxable income which is required for
solving, practical problems at this level.

| Examination context
Exam requirements
In the examination, candidates may be required to:
= Identify the different heads of income.
® Define the concept of salaries.
» Recognize the perquisites, allowances and benefits under salary income.
a [২6০০8৪10176 the income assessable under the. head.
এ |llustrate the exemptions allowed in determining taxable:income under the head.
= Understand investmént:allowance and tax rebate. on that.
= Compute final tax liability on ‘salary income:
Question practice.
For question practice on these topics go to the suggested answers covering this chapter and also this.
‘manual.

Page | 63

Examiner's comments on how students tackle questions
Candidates have:to be:prepared well for this area as this chapter consists of core concept on computation
of income, which is vital. for calculating tax liability. Clear concept and understanding of each content of
this chapter will help candidates to resolve any problems relating to computation of taxable income.
4.0 INCOME FROM EMPLOYMENT
Section overview
‘> Theré-are seven heads of income.
> Total income and taxable income may not.be the same.
> Tax free ceiling of allowances.
> Computation of total income from.employment.
> The'perquisites and allowances need to be considered in determining salary income.
> Treatment of provident fund and cther funds.
> Scope of investment allowance and tax rebate on that.
> Computing tax liability:
Heads of income: section 30
All incomes. shall, for the purpose of charge. of income tax and computation of total income, be. classified
and computed under the following heads of income, namely:
(a) Income from employment.
(8). Income from rent.
(c) Income from agricultural.
(d) Income from business.
(e) Income from capital gains.
(0 Income from financial assets
(g) Income from other sources.
Aggregation of income:: section 31
1. Save. as otherwise provided in this:Act, following incomes. shall be included in the total income of
a person, namely:-
a) Ifa person is a partner ofa partnership firm or a member a association of persons (AOP), his
__ share of income of that firm or AOP:
b) Income of spouse or minor child of such person, if —
a. Said spouse or minor child is dependent on him;
b. Such person has reasonable control over such income:.
০. He/she:is willing to'such aggregation.
Provided that such provision shall not apply if separate tax is assessed on.said spouse or minor child.
2. lfapersomis a partner of a partnership firm.or a member-of'a AOP, his-share in the income of said
firm or AOP shall be determined by the following formula, namely:-
A=B+(C-D)XE%, where, -
A.= The person’s share-of income from partnership firm or AOP;
Page | 64

B = Salary, interest, commission or other remuneration received by the ‘said person from said
partnership firm or AOP;
C = Total income of.said partnership firm or AOP;
D.= The amount of salary, interest, commission, or other remuneration payable by said partnership
firm or AOP to all partners or members; a
6 = % of share held. by the person in the partnership firm or AOP.
4.1 Scope of income from employment: section 32
According to section 32(1), the following income of an assessee is classified and computed under
the head “salaries”, and thereby chargeable:to tax, namely-
(a) any'financial receipts, salary. and benefits received or receivable from employment;
(b) income:earned from employee’ share scheme;
(c) any untaxed. arrear salary;
(0) any amount or benefit received from any past or future employer.
Accordirig to: section 3202), income from employment shall rot include the following réceipt, namely :-
(a) any‘amount received for medical expenses related to heart, kidney, eye, liver and cancer operations
of any such employee wha :is not a shareholder director;
(b) conveyance allowances, traveling allowances and ‘daily allowances received and expended wholly
and solely for the performance of the duties of the job.
Explanation: -
i) Salary:
There is: no exhaustive definition of “salary” in the Act. An inclusive definition has, however, been given
in section 32(2) of the Income Tax Act, 2023 as follows: - ‘salary’ means any amount of any nature
received by employee from employment and'shall includes followings, namely -
(a) any‘salary, wages or remuneration;
(b) -Any allowance, holiday allowance, leave encashmient, bonus, féé, commission, overtime;
(c), advance salary
(d) gratuity, annuities, pensions or its supplements;
(6) Perquisites::
(f) receipt.in lieu of salary or wages.or receipt in addition to salary or wages
ii) ‘Receipt in lieu of salary or wages’ or ‘receipt in addition to salary or wages’ includes:
(a) any compensation received on account of termination of employment called by whatever name;
(b) rémaining portion of provident fund or any-other'fund exceeding employee’s contribution;
(c) received amount or fair market value of benefits received as a result of changes in the terms of
employment contract;
(d) received amount or fair market value of received benefit on joining the.job or under any. condition of
the employment.
ii), Perquisite:
‘Perquisite’ means.any. payment.or benefit, including incentive bonues; given by the employer to the.
employee, but shall not include the following payment, namely —
(a) Basic-salary, arrears Salary, advance salary, festival bonus, leave encashment and overtime:
Page. | 65

(8) Contribution to recognized provident fund, approved pension fund, approved gratuity fund and
approved superannuation fund..
iii) Basis Salary:
‘Basic:-Salary’ means monthly or-otherwise payable salary on the basis of which other allowances. and
benefits are determined, however, shall not,include following allowances or benefits, namely:-.
(a) All types of allowance, perquisite, annuity, bonus & benefits; and
(b) Contributions made. by the employer to various funds of the employee.
4.2 Valuation of perquisite, allowances and benefit: section 33
Perquisite, allowance.and benefit which are not paid in monetary value, monetary’value of’such
perquisite, allowance and benefit:will be determined as below::
Perquisite, Monetary value
allowance, benefits
etc:
Where rent is fully paid by employer or accommodation is provided by
employer, annual value shall be included to income from employment.
Accommodation ‘Where accommodation is provided at a concessional rate, the difference:
between the rent actually paid by employee and. annual value shall be: added
to the income:from employment.
Car benefit In case of motor car up to 2,500 CC; monthly BDT 10,000:shall be added to
the income from employment.
In case of motor car’‘exceeding 2,500 CC, monthly BDT 25,000 shall be.
added to the income from employment.
Any other perquisite; | Monetary value of fair market value of perquisite, allowance or benefit.
allowance or benefit
Illustration 1
Mr. X is paid a monthly basic salary of Tk..40;000 and a dearness allowance of Tk: 3,000 per month. He
has also been provided with a reht-free accommodation. The employer has similar flat in the same
building which is rented outside Tk. 20,000 per month. However, monthly reasonable. rent of the flat is
Tk..25,000. How much amount will be added to his income'from employment?
Annual rental value: of similar flat (Tk. 20,000 x12 months) 240,000
Annual reasonable rent-of similar flat (Tk..25,000 412 months) 300;000
Amount 'to be added to income from employment (higher one) 300,000
Illustration 2
Mr. X has been paid a monthly basic salary of Tk. 40,000. Besides he has been provided with
accommodation at a concessional monthly rate of Tk: 10,000. The employer has-similar flat in the same
building which is rented outside Tk. 20;000 per month. However, monthly reasonable rent of the flat is
Tk. 25,000. How much will be added with taxable income:-due to availing this opportunity from the.
employer?
Annual rental value: of similar flat (Tk. 20,000 «12 months) 240,000
Page | 66

Annual reasonable rent of similar flat (Tk. 25,000 x12 months) 300,000

Annual value of accommodation (higher one) ] 300,000

Less: amount paid by employee (10,000 X 12) 120,000
Amount'to be added to income from employment 180,000 |

4.3 Determination of income derived from. employee share.scheme: section 34.

1. Employee-share. scheme means any agreement'or arrangement.under which a company —

a. May issue share to employee. of the company or its affiliated company;

b. Shares can be issued to the trustee. of a trust and subsequently the trustee can issue the share

to any employee of the said company or any of its affiliates as per'the trust deed.

2. If. shares ‘are-received ৮1709 317 employee share scheme, in the year in which the share are’
received, income.shall'be added to the ‘Income from Employment’ according to A — B, where —
A = Fair market value of:shares on the date of'receipt
B = Cost. of acquiring the shares

3. Cost-of acquiring the shares referred to above-shall mean the sum of following cost:

a. If employee paid any amount to:acquire the shares:

b. If employee paid any amount to-acquire the right or opportunity of'share:

4. Ifthe right or opportunity to.acquire shares under:the-employee share schemeiis sold. or
transferred by the employee, income shall be added to the ‘Income from Employment’ according
to. A — B, where —

A = Sale or'transfer'value of right of 6pporttinity to acquire share;

B: =.Amount paid to for right or opportunity to acquire share.
Illustration
On 1 January 2020 ABC Limited granted option over 10,000 of its shares (০ Mr. X, one of its. senior
employee. One condition of the share option was that Mr. X.must work for the ABC Limited for upcoming
3 years. Mr. X continued to be employed by ABC Limited during 2020, 2021 and.2022.
Since the condition was met, ABC limited granted 10,000-shares to Mr. X.on 31 December 2022. The-fair
value of share on 31 December 2020, 2021 and 2022 was:Tk 100, 120, and 110 respectively.
It should be noted that.Mr..X paid Tk. 60,000 as share transfer fee as per condition of the above'scheme.
How much amount'will be added to the income from employment of Mr. X.
Fair market; value of share at.the grant.date (10,000 X 110) 1,100,000:
Less: Cost of acquiring the.share 60;000
Amount to. be.added to income from employment 1,040,000

Page | 67

4.4 Provident fund
Provident fund is the fund where funds: are accumulated during the active period of employees for his
financial protection atthe end of his service life, amount-contributed by'the-employee. or the employer or
both employee and employer. The amount lying in the fund is invested in trust securities that yield fair
but secured returns. When an employee leaves his-service either on retirement or for any other reason,
he gets back the money’ standing to the credit of his provident fund account. In case of death of the
employee, the amount is. refunded to his. nominee. Provident fund is.a social security measure provided
to émiployeés for his rainy days of post-employment period. There are three types of provident fund:
| +) General Provident Fund [GPF]
>} ‘Statutory Provident Fund D
> Contributory Provident, Fund
Provident Fund > Recognized Provident Fund
| Unrecognized Provident Fund
General Provident Fund [GPF]:

General provident'fund is controlled and maintained by the: government for the government employees.
Such fund is constituted and run by the government under Provident Fund Act 1925, General Provident
Fund Rules 1979 and Contributory Provident Fund Rules: 1979. Government employees who are:
permanently transferred to the pensionable jobs, they contribute, to general provident fund where.
government as an employer contributes nothing. On the other hand, government employees who have:
no. benefits from pension, they contribute to contributory provident fund where. both government bodies
and the employee contribute. Generally, most of the government employees of our country are
pensionable.

Points to remember at the time of tax computation:

৪. Since employer does not contribute to general provident fund there is, no-question of its inclusion with.
salary. But where government bodies contribute to contributory provident ‘fund, government's:
contribution will be included with salary.

b. Employee's contribUtioh to statutory’/ general (government) provident fund will be considered ‘as
investment allowance.

০. Accumulated balance of GPF at'the credit of employees when received will not:be included in his total
income. It isexcluded from total income. under Para 7, Part'1-of Sixth Schedule of the Income: Tax Act,
2023.

Recognized Provident Fund [RPF]:

Recognized. Provident'fund is constituted under'the conditions mentioned in Part 3 of Second schedule.

in the Income Tax Act, 2023 and approved by the Commissioner'of Taxes. These funds ‘are available in,

non-government organizations where. both employees and employer ‘contribute the same. amount. In
order that a provident fund may. receive and retain recognition, it shall satisfy the conditions set out below
and any other'conditions which the NBR may prescribe:

Page | 68.

(i) All the employees shall be employed in Bangladesh or shall be employed by an employer whose
principal place of business or head office is in Bangladesh. In case of exceptional situation, the
recognition criteria will depend on the Commissioner's judgment.

(ii) Employermust deduct a certain percentage from the-salary of employee:and deposit the sameto'the
‘fund.

(iit) Employer will also contribute the.same.amount:as deducted from the employee.

(iv) Thefund will constitute taking the contribution of both the emiployer'and employee.

(v) The:fund. will be: managed by trustee of two or more persons.

(vi) Employer will not be entitled to take any amount from the fund.

(vii) Employee will receive the amount. deposited to his account including principal and interest at the:
time-of leaving the job.

Points to remember at the time of salary income computation:

a. Only, employer's contribution to RPF shall be included inthe total salary income of the employee as
per.law.

b. Both employers and employee's, contribution to RPF are considered to 09:9৪ part of investment.
allowance.

০. Accumulated balance at the credit of employee in the RPF, when received shall be excluded from
total employment income.

Unrecognized Provident Fund:
Unrecognized provident fund is not the recognized or statutory. fund. This fund is not, constituted under
Part 3, Second Schedule in ‘the Income Tax Act, 2023 or under any‘other applicable acts or laws and is:
not approved by the Commissioner of Taxes. In this fund, both the employees and employer contribute.
and generally it is found in. nongovernment organization. In this casé, the employers’ contribution and
interest thereon is not included in the total income of the employee. At the time of the employee's
retirement, the accumulated balance of the UPF except’ employees’ contribution is included in the total
income.

Points to remember at’the time of tax computation:

a. ; - E
miployer as Well.as employee may contribute to this provident fund, but:erployer’s contribution will
not be added in computing taxable salary income. না

0. At the time of employee's retirement, the accumiulated balance of this fund minus the employee's
contribution is taxable and will be added with salary.

Approved Superannuation Fund::

This type of fund is created for granting pension and other benefit to the employees on their retirement,

or after a specified age or his death. This fund is run by the individual name of the employees. This:fund

is approved and run under the. provisions of Part 1; Second Schedule of the Income Tax Act, 2023. Both
employee.and employer contribute to the fund. Thé contribution of the. employer is added to the income
of the:employee.

Approved Gratuity Fund:

If the employer agrees to constitute a gratuity fund for the benefit of the employees on the job contract,

then the. employer contributés to the gratuity fund for thé benefit of the. employees in the. event of

retirement. The approved gratuity fund is approved by the NBR.and run under the conditions mentioned
in at Second Schedule, Part 2. Employée contributes: nothing in this furid. The contribution by the:
Page | 69

employer is ‘considered as income of employee. But the: amount received up. to Tk.2.5 crore from

approved gratuity fund is tax free.

Worker’s Profit Participation Fund [WPPF]:

It is established under the Bangladesh Labour Act, 2006 (Act. XXXXIl of 2006). Any payment received

by any worker from this fund, shall be excluded from the total income.

4.5 Non-assessable income under the head “income from employment”:

In Part 1 of Sixth Schedule-of the Income Tax Act; 2023, some income relating to-salary have been

‘mentioned as non-assessable:

i) One:third of income from employment or Tk 450,000 (whichever is lower) shall be deducted from
‘Income from Employment’ (Sixth Schedule, Part 1, Para 27)

ii) The income.of any employee of intergovernmental organization or any international organization tax
of which is:exempted by under-any Act passed by the parliament or under any agreement:signed by
‘the Government. (Sixth Schedule, Part 1, Para 1)

iii) Remunération received form the concern Government by virtue of their eriployment by Ambassador,
High Commissioner; Envoy, Minister, Charge the Affairs, Commissioner, Councillor, Consul the
Gareer, Secrétary, Advisor or Atache of Ambacy, High Commission, Legation or commission of.a
foreign State. (Sixth Schedule, Part 1, Para 2) :

iv). Any income received by a trade commissioner of other official representative in Barigladesh of a

~ foreign State (not holding office as such in an honorary. capacity) .as his official salary, if the official
salary of the corresponding officials, if any, of the Government, resident for'simiilar purposes in the
country concerned, enjoy a similar exemption in that:country. (Sixth Schedule, Part 1, Para 2)

v) Any income by a miémber of the staff of any of the officials referred to above (i.e. ii.and iii), as his
official salary, when such member is not:a.citizen of Bangladesh and is:either.a subject;to the country
represented of a subject of some other foreign State and is not engaged in afy’ business or
profession or employment in Bangladesh otherwise than as:a member of such staff, and the country
represented has. made corresponding provision for similar.exemptions in‘the case of member of the
staff of the corresponding officials of the Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh in ‘that
country. (Sixth Schedule, Part 1, Para 2)

vi) Any pension due or received from the Government. (Sixth Schedule, Part 1, Para 4)

vii) Any gratuity up to:taka two:crore fifty lakh received from Government Pension Fund. (Sixth Schedule,
Part 1,, Para 5)

viii) Any recognized’ provident. fund, approved superannuation fund, pension fund, approved gratuity
fund-

a) Any contribution received by the employee and employer; and

b) Income-distributed to the beneficiary thereof from which the fund is liable to tax

Provided that the amount received by the taxpayer as. gratuity from by. approved gratuity’fund does
not exceed the limit:two crore fifty lakh. (Sixth Schedule, Part.1, Para 6)

ix) Any incorie from a provident fund established under the Provident Fund Act, 1925. (Sixth Schedule,
Part 1,, Para 7)

x) any amount received by any eniployee of a Goverment body, local authority of autonomous or
semi-autonomous body and their controlled units or institutions on voluntary retirement under any
scheme approved by the Government for this purpose. (Sixth Schedule, Part 1, Para 8)

In addition to above, Board or:Government exempted some employment income through issuing SROs,
namely - :
a) According to SRO 182-law/99, dated 1 July 1999, if salary tax is: paid by employer, tax shall not be
applicable on such paid tax.
Page | 70.

b) According to SRO 298/2015 dated 8 October 2015, foreign expatriate having technical knowledge
employed by any company, operating for production of goods or rendering service in any Economic
Zone (as declared and established under'section 5 and 4 respectively, of Bangladesh Economic Zone
Act 2010), 50% of tax payable by him/her will be. exempted from income tax for 3 years from
appointment by said. company.

4.6 Tax rebate on certain investment
According to section 78. of Income Tax Act, 2023, resident individual and non-resident Bangladeshi shall
be entitle to tax rebate as under:
Lower of :
(i) 0.03 X A.; or
(ii) 0.15 XB; or
(iii) Tk 10 lakh.
Where,
A.= Computed total income excluding tax-exempted income, income subject to reduced tax rate, income
subject to minimum tax.
B = Total investment and expenditure of the taxpayer'as per Part 3 of Sixth Schedule.
4.6 Items included in investment allowance related to salary income:
From basic salary, the employer can deduct a certain amount of money under various heads according
to the contract between employer'and employee. Of those some: of the. deductions are. included in the
items of investment allowance for which tax rebate is admissible: As per the regulations of Part 3 of Sixth
Schedule: of the Income: Tax Act, 2023, the following salary items are considered as a part.of the:
investment allowance:
i) Any-sum deducted from salary to a:deferred annuity or for making provisions for his wife or-children,
provided that the sum so deducted shall not exceed one-fifth of the salary. (Para 3)
ii) Employee’s contribution to:a General Provident Fund [GPF]. (Para:4)
iii) Employee's and Employer's: contribution to RPF (Para 5)
iv). Ordinary annual contribution to approved superafinuation fund. (Para 6)
v) Employee's contribution to a benevolent fund or group insurance.scheme. (Para 12).
Computation of taxable income from salary at a glance:
2. Deamess allowance
6. Arrear salary Full,. provided that, it'was not taxed in earlier years
7. Leave encashment
8. Approved Pension Nothing,. since fully tax free
9. Approved Gratuity Amount exceeding Tk.2.5 crore
10. Annuity
Page | 71

15. Employer’s contribution to Full

মম মো সামার
22. Accommodation at concessional Difference between annual ‘value and amount
24. Transport./ conveyance facility Motor car up to 2,500. CC. monthly 10,000 shall be

added to the income, if motor car exceed 2,500 CC

নানা ০০০০০৮০০০০০
26. Free tea, coffee or light beverage in office. Nothing

[premises nme | মো মম
27. Free dress, telephone, power, gas, water in Full

choses Oe রর
30. Allowance received as head of the Fully tax free if it'spent for office purpose.

ছা | লন
32. Residence telephone bills / utility bills / club. | Full

[isremouses nn 1 ো । ।

4.7 Salient points in assessment of income from salaries

(i) Tax is payable by an assessee under the head “Income ‘from Employment’ in respect of any salary
or Wages, any annuity, pension or gratuity and any fees, commission, perquisites or profits in lieu of,
or in addition to, any salary or wages, and:any advance salary.

(ii) Tax is levied on salaries which are due; whether paid or not, as ‘well as‘on salaries which are paid,
‘whether due or not.

(iii) Relationship of employer and employee must exist between the payer and the recipient of.salaries.
The. employer may be Government, a local authority, a company or any other public body. or
association or any private employer:

(iv) Death-cum-retirement benefits or.gratuities and certain payments from funds are:completely exempt
from tax.

(v) Income chargeable under the head “Income from Employment” is to be computed after making certain
deductions.

(vi) The. provisions regarding different types of provident funds, and payment of life insurance. premium.
are Very important and are to be carefully studied to find out. the correct. income tax on income.
chargeable under the head “Income from Employment”.

Page | 72

(viil)Salaries are. subject to deduction of tax at source. Hence, income tax is to be paid on Salaries for a:
particular assessment year at the rates applicable thereto.

Worked Examples and Solutions

Worked example 1.

From the following data compute 'total income and tax. payable by Mr. Amit Bhowmik for the.

income year ended 30 June 2022:

Elements of salary

Basic salary: @ Tk:20,000 p.m. 2,40,000

Bonus: 2 months’ Basic Pay

Free furnished accommodation of which annual value was 200,000:

Performance bonus: Tk. 450,000.

Employer's contribution to RPF: @ 10% of'basic salary

Car (2,000. CC): partly used for-office and partly for personal purpose.

Life: insurance premium paid by Mr. Amit Bhowmik:6,000

Solution 1:

Mr. Amit Bhowmik _

Assessment’ year 2023-24

Income year ended on 30 June 2022

Computation of total income and tax liability

Income from “salaries” u/s 21: Tk.

Basic:salary @ Tk. 20,000 p.m. for 12. months 2,40,000

Free furnished accommodation — Annual value 200,000

Car benefit (monthly 10,000 as 2,000 CC) 120,000

Employer's contribution to RPF —'10%-of Basic 24,000

Bonus: — 2: months basic 40,000

Performance bonus 450,000

Total income from employment before exemption 1,074,000

Less: Exemption (lower of 1/3 of total employment income. or.450,000) 358,000

Total income from employment 716;000

Calculation of tax liability:

On first Tk. 3;50,000 @ 0% 0

On next Tk.1,00,000 @ 5% | 5,000

On next Tk. 266,000 @ 10% 26,600

Gross ‘tax liability’ 31,600

Less: Tax rebate (79191) 8,100

Tax liability after investment rebate 23,500

B. Net tax payable [Minimum tax] 5,000

Tax liability (Higher of A and B) 23,500
Page | 73

Note — 1: Actual investments made:
Contribution to RPF by both employee and employer Tk. 48,000
‘Life insurance premium paid Tk. 6,000.
Total investment Tk. 54,000
Maximum limit [as per section 44(3)]:
Lower of i) Tk 21,480 (0.03.X 716,000) or ii) Tk.8,100 (0.15 X 54,000) and iii) Tk 10 lakh.
Worked example 2
Mr. Milky, CEO of a Multinational company in Bangladesh, has got the ‘following income for the income
year‘ended 30 June 2022. You are required to calculate the total income and tax: payable of Mr. Milky
(a) Basic pay of Tk.150,000 per month sent directly to his bank account.
(b) Rent free accommodation provided by the company annual value of which is Tk.600,000.
(c) Full time: company car:(3,000 CG) for his own use and for his family.
(d) Company pays Tk. 100;000 p.m: for his three school going children which is paid to the school
authority directly.
(e) He received two festival bonus equivalents to basic pay during the festival time which he spent
partly for his-family and partly for the poor people in his: village.
(0. Driver's‘salary was Tk. 10,000 p.m. paid to his driver's bank account.
(g) Company paid Tk. 300,000 to him during the yéar being the réimibursement of various utility bills: of
his house;
(h) Medical allowance Tk..5000 p.m. His actual expense is: more than this.
(i) | He was paid Tk. 1,000,000 for his overseas travels for the official trip out of which he saved 25%
during the year;
(jy Bill paid for international club Tk. 295,000
(k) He received interést-on securities Tk. 175,000 on his investments;
(I) He has got one house of his own at Baridhara and he received total Tk. 12,00,000 as rent from
letting it out to a foreigner.
(m) He paid Tk. 1,50,000.as LIP for himself
(n) He invested Tk. 15,00,000 on Govt. bond and primary shares of listed companies;
(0) Received cash dividend (net of TDS) Tk. 2,02,500/ during the year.
(0) TDS applied by employer Tk 700,000.
Solution 2:
Mr. Milky
Assessment year’2023-24
Accounting year ended 30 June 2022
Computation of total income and tax liability
Basic:salary @ Tk. 150,000 p.m. Tk. 150,000 x 12. 18,00,000; — |
7166 accommodation — Annual value Po 600,000;
Car benefit (3,000 CC) Tk. 25,000 x 12. 300,000; = |
Fee to school going children Tk. 100,000 x 12 12,00,000; — |
Tk. 150,000%2| 3,00,000|
Reimbursement of utility bills: Po 1 30000) __ _
Savings from official oversees travel Tk. 1,000,000 x 25% 250,000; |
Bills paid for international club Po 295,000; |
A. Total income from employment ____ ৷ __ 5,054,000
Page | 74

নওগা শ | |
959 00 securities | 175,000 |
fincome বগা “house property” 7 SSCS
দোআ 200,000]
Less: Allowable expenses -
fe Reparandmanierence@2sk | | 300000900০০
semen গা | |
নার গান
মামা আআ আআ
নডা66প6 [/ [ ভ885006]
On-first Tk. 3,50,000 @ 0% -
On. next Tk. 1,00,000.@ 5% 5,000
On. next Tk. 3,00,000. @ 10% 30,000
On. next Tk..4,00,000. @ 15% 60,000
On.next Tk. 5,00,000. @.20% 100,000
On. balance Tk. 4,245,000 @ 25%. 1,061,250
Gross tax on liability | Ss, 256,250 |
Léss: Investment tax! rebate. (note: 1) 176,940
Tax liability after investment tax. rebate 1,079,310
Less: Tax deducted at sources
On cash dividend @10% 22,500
TDS ‘by company employer 700,000
Net tax payable
Note — 1: Actual investments made:

Investment in. Government Bonds and Primary Shares Tk. 1,500,000

Life insurance premium 1,50;000

Total investment Tk. 1,650,000

Investment rebate:

Lower of:

i) 0.03 X:5,895;000 Tk. 176,940

ii) 0.15 X 1,650,000 247,500

iii) Tk 1,000,000 1,000,000

Page | 75

Worked example 3
Mr. Mallik is a-service holder. Following are the particulars of his income from salary for the’ year ended
on 3011 June 2022:
a. Basic salary Tk. 25,000 per month.
b. Dearness allowance - 10% of Basic salary
০. Two festival bonus - each equal to one month's basic:salary
d.. He has been provided with a rent-free quarter; the annual value of which is Tk. 180,000.
9. He has been provided with a car (2,000 CC) for both office and private use.
f. Médical allowance:- Tk. 250’ per month.
g. During the year'he received Tk. 6,000 as traveling allowance.
h.. He is given a.servant allowance of Tk. 200 per month. ;
i. He contributes 1%. of his basic-salary to: the. Group Insurance Scheme.
J. He deposited Tk. 500 per month on.a Deposit Pension Scheme.
Compute total income:from salary and investment allowance.
Solution 3:
Assessee: Mr. Mallik
_ Assessment year 2023-24
Income year ended 30 June 2022
Computation of total income
Heads of income Tk. Tk.
Income:from employment (section - 21):
i) Basic salary (25,000x12) 3,00,000
ii) Dearness: allowance (3,00;000x10%) 30;000
iii) Festival bonus: (25,000x2) 50,000
iv) Rent free accommodation (Annual value) 180,000
v), Conveyance facility (Monthly 120,000
10,000)
vi) Medical allowance (250x12) 3,000
vii) Traveling allowance 6,000
viii) Servant allowance (200x12) 2,400
Total employment income before exemption 6,91,400
Exemption (lower of 1/3. of total employment income or 450,000) 230,467
Total income from employment. 460,933
Investment: (actual)
Particulars Amount (TK.)
Employee's contribution to Group Insurance Scheme 1% of B.S. (3,00,000x1%) 3,000:
Contribution ‘to DPS (500x12) 6,000
Page | 76

Worked example 4:
On. June 2023, Mr. Syful Hoque's basic: salary falls.on Tk. 10,200 in the scale of 9,600-200x1212,000..
His date of yearly increment is on 1* April. He received dearness allowance @ 10% of basic salary and
medical allowance. Tk. 300 per month. During the year his actual amount of medical expense was Tk.
3,000. He received two bonus equivalents to one month's basic salary-one received before: the date of
increment and another after increment.
He contributes 10%, of his: basic salary to a recognized provident fund from which he has also received
an interest of Tk.. 1,500 @ 14% on which the fund was taxable. His employer also contributes the same
amount to the RPF. He has been provided with a rent-free quarter of which annual value is Tk. 300,000
anda car (1,500 CC) for both official and personal purpose. During the year he has also received an
entertainment allowance. of Tk..5,000 of which Tk: 4,500 has actually'been spent. His investments during
the year:were as follows:
a) Purchase of shares of'a listed company Tk. 2,000.
b) Purchase ০0900 Tk. 10,000.
c) Payment of his life insurance premium Tk. 4,000 (Policy value Tk. 35;000)
0) Purehase of books.and magazine Tk. 3,000.
9). Contribution to a Deposit Pension Scheme Tk. 500 on a monthly basis.
Compute total income and tax liability‘of Mr. Syful Hoque for the assessment year 2023-24.
Solution 4:
Assessee: Mr. Syful Hoque
Assessment year 2023-24
Accounting year ended 30 June 2023
Computation of total income.and tax liability
Income from employment:
i) Basic salary [(10,000x9) + (10,200x3)) 1,20,600
ii) Dearnéss, allowance. (1,20,600xI0%) 12,060
iii). Medical allowance (300xI2) 3,600
iv) Bonus [10,000+ 10,200) 20,200
v) Employer's contribution to RPF [1,20,600xI0%] 12,060
vi) Interest'on RPF@14% 1,500.
Less: Exempted as per 6" schedule part 1 para 6; (1500)
vil) Rent free accorimodation (Annual valtie) 300,000
viii) Car facility:(2,500 CC) (10,000 X 12) 420,000
ix) Entertainment.allowance 5,000
Total income before exemption 605,720
Page | 77

Less: (lower of 1/3 of'total employment income or 450,000) (201,907)
Total income from employment 403,813
Computation of investment allowance:
Amount 00
1. Purchase of shares of listed company’ 2,000
‘2. Employee's and employer's contribution to RPF (1 2,060x2)
24,120
3. Payment:of life insurance premium 4,000; maximum (10% ofthe
policy value i.e., 10% of 35,000 = 3,500) 3,500
4. Contribution to Deposit Pension Scheme (500x12) 6,000
Total 35,620.
Computation of tax liability:
Pp Amount | ওমানে | Tax
First Tk 350,000
Remaining Tk 53,813 2,691
Gross tax liability SY 2,691
Less: Investment rebate PO (5,343)
Tax Liability (minirium tax) Pe 5,000
Computation of investment rebate:
Lower of i) TK 12,114 (0.03 X 403,813) or ii) Tk 5;343 (0.15 X 35,620) and iii) Tk 10 lakh.
Worked example 5
Mr. Zairian Hoque was. the HR Manager‘of Axiata. Bangladesh Ltd. On July 2022, his basic salary was:
Tk.52,000 in the scale of.40,000-4,000x8-72,000. His date of yearly increment is on 26" March. He ‘was
terminated from Axiata Bangladesh ltd. on 30‘ April, 2023 and Joined Grairieén phone Ltd. on. 1১: June:
of the same year. During the:income year his income from Axiata Bangladesh Ltd and Grameen phone’
Ltd. are as follows:
From Axiata Bangladesh Ltd.:
He. received dearness:allowarice @ 10% of basic salary. arid medical allowance Tk. 2,000 per month. He
received two festival bonus each equivalent to one month's basic:salary in the: month of September and
April respéctively.. He contributes 10% of his basic salary to 4 recognized provident fund. He has: been
provided with a rent-free quarter of which reasonable rental value was Tk 450,000 (per year) and a full-
tine car (2,000 CC) by'the: employer. During the year he has also received an entertainment allowance
of Tk. 1,000 per month. He has received compensation for the. termination ‘of Tk. 2,00,000 and
unapproved. gratuity.of Tk. 1,00,000. Moreover, his accumulated balance from the.RPF was. Tk..1,80,000..
Page | 78

From Grameen Phone:
His basic-salary is Tk. 60,000 per month with-40% house rent allowance:and 115,000 medical allowance:
per month. He is also entitled to receive Tk. 4,000:conveyance allowance per month. He contributes 10%
of his basic salary to a recognized provident fund. His employer also contributed the same.
His taxable income from other:sources was Tk. 213,119 during the year. During the year total TDS from
various sources of his. income was Tk. 20,000. Moreover: his réftind claims. of Tk. 10,000 for excess.
payment of tax. in the last assessment year was to be adjusted with current year’s tax liability. His
investments during the. year were as'follows:
a. Purchase.of savings. certificate. Tk. 100,000.
b. Payment of his life insurance premium Tk. 20,000 (Policy value Tk. 5,00,000)
c. Contribution to DPS Tk. 3,000 per month.
Compute total income and tax liability of Mr.Zaman Hoque for the assessment year 2023-24.
Solution 5:
Assessee: Mr. Zaman Hoque
Assessment year’2023-24
Income year ended 30 June 2023
Computation of total income.and tax liability
Income from salaries:
i) Basic.salary (Note 1) 584,774
ii) Dearness allowance (Axiata) (5,24,774x10%) §2;477
iii) Medical allowance (Total)[(2,000x10) + 5,000] 25,000
iv) Bonus [52,000+56,000] 108,000
v) Employer's contribution 'to RPF (Total). [5, 84,774x 10%] 58,477
vi) Rent'free accommodation (Axiata):, (450,000x (10/12)) 375,000
vii) Carfacility (Axiata) (10,000 X. 10) 100,000
viii) Entertainment allowance (Axiata) (1,000x10) 10,000
ix) Compensation (Axiata) 2,00,000
x) Gratuity. (Axiata) 100,000
xi) Accumulated balance of RPF (Axiata) 180,000
xii) House rent allowance (Grameen phone) (60,000x40%) 24,000
xiii)Conveyance allowance 30,000
Total 1,647,728
Less: (lower of 1/3 of total employment.income:or 450,000) (450 000)
Income from employment 4,197,728
Income from other sources 213,149
Total income 4,410,847
Computation of Investment allowance
Page | 79

Particulars; Amount
(Tk,)
1. Purchase of savings certificate 100,000
2. Payment-of life insurance premium 20,000; maximum (10% of the policy value i.e., 10%
of 5,00,000 = 50,000)
20,000
3. Contribution to DPS (3,000 x12) _ 36,000.
4. Employee's and. employer's contribution to RPF (58,477x2) 116,954
Total 272;954
Investment rebate: Lower of i) Tk 42,325 (0.03 X 1,410,847) or ii) Tk 40,943 (0.15 X 272,954) and iii)
Tk 10 lakh.
Tax liability:
Income | Rate | Tax

On the first 350,000 0% -

On'the next 100,000 5%. 5,000

Onthe next 300,000° 10% 30,000

On_the. next 400,000 15% 60,000

On balance 260,847 20% 52,169

Total 147,169

Less: Investment tax rebate (40,943)

Less: TDS (20,000)

Previous: Refund adjustment (10,000

Net tax liability _ 7০,226 |

Note:
1. Total basic, salary:
From Axiata:
Basic salary from July 18 to February 21= [Tk. 52,000 ৪] = Tk. 4,16,000
Basic.salary forthe month March 21 = [(52,000"25/31) + (56,000"6/31)] =Tk. 52,774
Basic salary for‘the month April 21 =Tk. 56,000
= Tk. 5,24,774
From Grameen, phone:
8. S..for the month June 21 = Tk. 60,000
Total basic salary for the income year 2020-21 = Tk. 5,84,774
Self-assessment question
1. (a) What is meant by “perquisite” under the Income: Tax Act,1984?
(b) Does it.include employer's contribution to a recognized provident fund?
(c) Discuss the allowable perquisites limit under the.Act.

2. A question may arise why employer's contribution to RPF- is: once added ‘to income and again rank:
for investment allowance of an assessee. This device is meant to raise’ total income so that the
assessee is put into higher slab of income tax rate.

Page | 80.

Se eo [oN ১০৯ ff NGS
LEG EEG ASIII OR ১১০০৯৮৫৪৫৮০
pes SEES আক SS ae eee | oI ca ga EYE cig J! eae EE
এ সা তে ২ SON Cae woe ats ০ পাচ trey UE
Chapter 5
Income from financial asset
[Contents
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list:
| 5.1 | Nature of securities
i 8.2 Bond washing transactions through sale. and buy back of securities ;
i 5.3 Types of securities
foccccereeee enero: =. ডো
| 5.4 Interest grossing up’ i
[রা তালা আআ আম নে এননননশশ
5:85 Admissible expenses
i 5.6 List of tax-free securities
Worked examples
[Introduction
Learning objectives
» Understanding the head ‘Income from financial asset’.
দ Compute the-‘taxable income. under'the head ‘Income. from financial asset’.
*# Knowing different type of sécurities available in Bangladesh.
= Identify the allowable deductions under the head ‘Income from financial asset’.
2 [llustrate the allowable, inadmissible: and not pefmissible deductions in determining the income from
‘Income from financial asset’.
= Define cum-interest, éx-interest and bond washing transactions.
Practical significance
Income from financial asset is the sixth head of income. It is very important to know interest bearing
financial asset available in market and how this income is brought under the purview of taxation. Though
the révenue from this source is not:so significant'to the Government, still ‘this chapter comprises some:
technicalities over which professional accountants. should have sufficient expertise.
Page. | 81

Application of cum and ex interest:and bond washing transaction in computing taxable interest income is
very important and necessitates professional judgment and competence. These topics are. éxplained in
this chapter.
This chapter’ has practical significance. in a sense that the students will interact with the capital market.
directly. Approved commercial securities are traded in the market and thus the professional accountants
can play a significant role in computing tax liability of individuals. and corporate as well.
You will find the details of the above issues in this chapter with some practical example.
Stop and think
Do you fealize. that the computation of taxable income under'the head ‘Income from financial. asset’ is
one of the seven heads of income and includes some complexity? Do you feel that you are in a position
to compute tax liability under this héad independently? Can you Visualize the scope of tax avoidance
and remedies in this regard?
Working context
In practice, as the accountants are sometime required to prepare. their clients' tax returns, they need to
advise the clients on how to calculate the taxable income ‘from different heads for a particular year. Before
advising the clients, accountants ‘should have the clear concept relating to the admissible and
inadmissible expenses and exemptions 'so that they can’ deduct oradd the expenses in determining the
taxable income.
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are very important for computing taxable income which is required for
solving sample practical problems. at this level.
You Will also be able, using this knowledge, to plan tax in Such a Way that tax can be minimized.
[Examination context
Exam requirements.
In the examination, candidates may be required to:
= Identify income under the head “Income from financial asset.
*® Define the concépts.of iriterest-bearing financial asset or securities.
* Recognize the allowable:expenses and inadmissible expenses under the head.
® Define different types of securities.
* Calculate taxable income under the head ‘Income from financial asset.
দ Understand the application of ex and cum interest.
= Handle-situations like bond washing transactions.
Question practice.
For question practice. on thése ‘topics go to ‘the. suggested answers covering this. chapter and also this.
manual.
Page | 82

Examiner's comments on how students tackle questions

Candidates have to be prepared well for this area as this chapter‘consists of one:concept on. computation

of income which is vital for calculating ‘tax liability. Clear concept.and understanding of each contents of

this chapter will help candidates to resolve any problems relating to computation of income.

5.0 INTEREST ON SECURITIES

Section overview

> Therée.are seven heads of income. Income:from financial asset is one.ofthem.

> There. are some allowable, inadmissible and not. permissible. deductions under different heads of

income.

> Computation of taxable income from financial asset is very important.

> Grossing up of interest on financial asset.

‘> Tax.shall be payable when an assessee actually received interest on financial asset.

> ‘The:two main methods of accounting are cash system and mercantile system.

> Anassessee may'be allowed to set off of losses but carry’ forward not:allowéd.

Scope of ‘Income from financial asset’

As per section 62 of the Income Tax Act, 2023, Income classifiable under thé head “Income-from financial

‘asset’ includes:

(i) Interest, profit:or discount of the Government or Government approved securities;

(1) Interest, profit or discount of debentures or other securities issued by or on behalf of a local
‘authority or a: comipany.

(ili) Interest or profit receivable:from following sources, namely —
a) Deposit inte any bank or financial institute called whatever name;
b) Any-financial product or scheme

(iv) Dividend

Definition ‘Securities’

Section 2 (87) provides that ‘Securities’ shall includes —

(a) Treasury bills, bonds, savings certificate, debenture, sukuk or shariah-based securities or similar
instruments. issued by the. Government.

(b) Share or stock issued by any company:or legal entity or issuer, deed issued by way:of mortgage or
charge ‘or hypothecation, bonds, debenture, derivatives, units of any joint. investment scheme:
including mutual funds or alternative. investment fund, sukuk or similar shariah based deed, and
purchase right or-warrant.to accept the aforesaid deed.

Provided that it shall not include any‘currency or note, draft, cheque, bill of exchange, bank, acceptance,

trade réceivable or trade payable.

Exclusion from scope of "Income from financial asset’

Capital gain. arisirig ‘from transfer of financial asset shall not be treated as ‘Income from financial asset’.

Such capital gain shall be treated as ‘Income from capital gain’ under.section 57 of Income Tax Act, 2023.

Timing of tax on ‘Income from financial asset’ _ .

According to.section 63 of ‘the Income Tax Act, 2023, in thé income year in Which a person recéives,

income from financial asset-or in the income year in which.such income accrues to him, whichever occurs

first, it shall be included in that income year.
Page | 83

Allowable deductions from 00016 07] financial asset’
Deductions permissible in the determination of income from financial asset as per section 64 are:
(i) Any amount:deducted (other than income tax) against interest or profit by bank or financial institute;
(ii) Interest paid on berrowed money solely for the purpose of earning from ‘Income from financial asset’;
(iii) Any other expenditure (in addition ‘to above) incurred solely for the purpose of earning the relevant
income i.e. ‘Income from financial asset’.
Non-allowable deductions
According to section 65 of the: Income Tax Act, 2023, following expenditure shall not be treated as
allowable: expenditure: for the purpose of computing ‘Incoriiefrom financial asset’
(i) Any interest payable outside Bangladesh from which withholding income tax has not been applied or
paid in accordance with the provision of this Act;
(ii) Interest,or commission paid against such income from financial asset on which tax is exempted;
(iii) Any expenditure of 4 capital or personal nature.
5.1 Nature of securities
Dealings of securities may have various purposes from the part of the investors. For example, it may'take
any of the following ‘three. naturés:
| securities |-— >) Available for sale, securities
>| Held.to maturity:securities
Trading securities are those types of securities where the main purpose is to earn profit through trading
(buying and selling) of securities. However, held'to.maturity securities are those types of securities where
investment.is made .for:a specific:time period. However, available for sale securities fall in between which
is. not an investment for long time or'where the dealing is not .so frequent. The investors wait for a while
to. see how to maximize profit on the deal. As interest on securities is‘a separate head of income, even if
the securities are held as trading assets within the course of business undertaken by a bank or an
insurance.company or a stock broker, the.interest must be charged under this head:and not under section:
28 as income from business: or profession or under section 33 as income from other sources: [Central
Exchange Bank LTD. V. C.L.T. (1.955) I.T.R. 167].
5.2 Bond washing transactions through sale and buy back of securities
When:some transactions happened between two parties to wash out the impact of interest on taxable.
income and thus avoiding the taxes on that mutually by both of the parties, such type of transaction is-
referred to as bond washing transaction. It is a smart way of*tax avoidance. In this case, securities are
sold cum interest with an agreement to re-sell or retransfer the securities. Securities are.sold to a person
whose. income is less than the minimum taxable limit and then he doesn’t need to pay any. tax on interest
on securities since his'income is less than the taxable limit. On the other hand, since securities are‘capital
asset, no tax will be given on the disposal value of the securities by. the seller. In this way both the seller
and buyer can avoid tax.
To prevent the avoidance of tax. in. this manner, section 242 of the Income Tax Act, 2023 provides that
where: a security owner transfers the. securities on'the eve of due date of ifterest.and reacquires them
Page | 84

eventually, the interest received by the transferee/purchaser will be deemed as income of the.
transferor/seller and, accordingly, it will’ be included in the total income of the transferor/seller and not the
transferee/purchaser. There is wide scope to avoid tax in this way and Section 242 has given sufficient
‘authority to the DCT to handle those cases of tax avoidance. It should be mentioned here that
stocks/shares are also defined as securities: at section 242.
5.3 Types of securities
In terms. of taxability, securities may be classified as either Government securities (securities issued or
approved by.the Governmient):or Commercial securities (securities: issue by others).
Securities: PProve
Unapproved
Zero coupon b ০1705
Government securities: Securities issued or approved by the Government fall under this category. It
may be tax free if‘tax is not imposed on iriterest or may be.less tax on the reasoning thatthe assessee
will enjoy some exemption on interest income.
Tax free: Any income received by an assessee form Wage earners development bond, US dollar
premium bond, US dollar investment bond, Euro premium bond, Euro investment bond, Pound starling
investment. bond or Pound:starling premium bond is:exempted income tax under Sixth Schedule, Part 1,
Para 18.
Tax_deductible_Government ‘securities: These are the government securities including treasury
bill/bond and Islamic. sécurities on Which tax is'to.be deducted at sourcé:at'the time of paymenton maturity
at'specified rate [current TDS rate is 5%]..
Commercial securities: Securities issued by or-on behalf of a local authority ora company'and approved
by the SEG will be considered as commercial securities. These types of securities may be ‘either
debenture or zero-coupon bonds.
Debenture: These are the securities issued by or on behalf of a local authority or a company and
approved by the SEC. Thus, debentures are approved ‘securities.
Zero-coupon bond:.A Zero-coupon bond is such type of bond where coupon (interest) is zero. This:type
of.securities is initially sold at a price lower than its. face value and the owner receives the face value at.
maturity: Thus, the gap. between the purchase price and face value.is the benefit of'buying such security
to the: owner. Any income derived from Zero-coupon bond received by ‘a person other than Bank,
Insurance. or any Financial Institution is fully tax free [Sixth Schedule, Part 1, Para 25]. The price of a
zero-coupon bond can be calculated by‘using the following formula:
P=M/(t4r)"
Here P represents price, M represents maturity value; r represents investor's required annual yield / 2
and n is the number of years until maturity’x: 2.
Page | 85

Example:

If you want'to, purchase-a Company XYZ zero-coupon bond'that has a BDT 1,000-face value and matures

in three years, and you would like to.earn 10% per year:on the investment, using the'formula above you

might be willing to pay:

BDT 1,000 / (1+.05)®= BDT 746.22

Thus, the tax-free income from investment in zero-coupon bond here will be. BDT 253.78 (BDT 1,000.—

BDT 746.22).

‘5.4 Interest grossing up

As tax @5% is deductible from interest on securities at the time of maturity, so net interest needed to

be grossed-up.

5.5 Expenses admissible

As per section 64 of ITA, 2023, the following expenses are admissible for deduction to compute income

taxable under the head:

1. Bank commission/charges for collection of interest: If such. ifiterest.is collected through bank
and eventually bank charges the client for collecting interest, such amount can be deducted for
computing taxable ificome with the following two exceptions:

a. This deduction is not permissible if such charge is made '‘for-collecting interest of such securities
on:which tax cannot be. imposed. Example: tax free government securities, zero coupon bond.
b.. Personal or capital nature expenditure.

2. Interest on borrowed capital for investment in securities: Any interest on money borrowed for
‘the. purpose. of investment in ‘the securities by the assessee. will be an allowable expense. But
interest on borrowed capital for investment in tax-free government:securities and zero-coupon bond
is not.allowable expense as interest on these securities, is not.taxable.

5.6 List of tax-free securities: -

Intérest income is exempted from taxes in following occasions as per ITA, 1984:

Po Name CT দিিণিথও

[1] Wage. earners development bond

[2] US dollar premium bond

[3] US dollar investment bond

[4] Euro. premium: bond Sixth Schedule, Pait.1, Para 18
[5] Euro investment borid

[6] Pound ‘sterling premium bond.

[7] Pound sterling investment bond

Zero-coupon bond Sixth Schedule, 28161, Para 25

Worked example

Worked example 1:

ABC Bank Ltd. a Bangladeshi listed bank received interest on Treasury bond Tk:10,00,000/ ‘during the:

calendar year 2021. Bangladesh Bank neither deducts tax at:Upfront systém or-at the time of maturity.

Calculate. income. under'the heard ‘Income from financial asset’ and tax to be paid.

Page | 86

Solution 1:

ABC Bank Ltd.

Assessment year:2023-24 _ Oo

Income for year ended on:31%t December 2021

Computation of income from interest on security under section 22:

Interest on securities (Treasury Bond) Fully taxable:as it is: not tax-free-------------Tk.10,00,000

Tax @ 37.5% comes. at Tk:3,75,000 (No ‘tax credit as there was no TDS)

Worked example 2:

Mr. Jamal Kaiser has the following interest income from investments in securities during the income year

2022-23:

1. Tk. 100,000 from interest on Bangladesh Wage. Earner's Development Bond (Purchased on 1"
September, 2017).

2. Tk: 200,000 from Bangladesh Investment Bond (Purchased on 30" June,2020). Tax @ 5% was.
deducted at that time at upfront system. That's why no further tax was deducted at the time of
maturity on 30" June,2023.

3. On 31" March, ‘2020, 3 years Zero Coupon Bond of Tk. 50,000 was matured and he: has received
the amount as maturity value, whether the acquisition price of the same was Tk. 35,000. The.
collection fee of Tk. 500 was charged in this regard by his bank.

Compute income from interest and tax payable by Mr. Jamal Kaiser for the income year'2022-23.

Solution 2:

Mr. Jamal Kaiser

Assessment year: 2023-24

Income year: 2022-23

Computation of total income

Income from securities (section: 22 & 23):
(1) Interest:form tax free government.securities (Wage earner development
Bond) 1,00,000
Less: tax free as per 6"" schedule (part-A) para-24A 1,00,000 0
(2) Interest on Bangladesh Investment Bond 2,00,000} 2,00,000
(3) Interest‘on zero coupon bond 15,000
Less: exemption (full) As per.6"" Schedule (Part-A) Para-40 15,000

Taxable income from interest on securities 7 2,00,000
Tax:zero as income is below taxable ceiling of Tk.3,50,000 assuming he has no
other income source.
Page | 87

Self-assessment question
1. What. incomes are included in “Income from financial asset” under the Income Tax Act, 2023?
2. Is interést-on private loan is an interést‘on securities?
3. What, deductions: are allowable from. such income under the:Act?.
4. Do you know the list of tax-free securities?
Page | 88

ee নন ও ও ae ১ "শুট Sel ছে RS ১. TOS শী কি হন
Income from rent
|[Contents .
Introduction

Examination context

Topic list
| 6.1 | Income from rent
৷. 6.2 | Computation of ‘Income from rent’ ,
i 6.3 Allowable deductions in computing ‘Income from. rent’ ;
| 6.4 Fornialities to be followed by‘the landlord receiving monthly rent more than Tk:25,000
| 6.5 | Tax to be.deducted at.source from house property - |
Worked examples
(introduction
Learning objectives

# — Identify the income under'the head ‘Income from rent’.

= Compute the'taxable income under'this head.

* Knowing annual value and its computation.

® Identify the allowable deductions under the head.

দ Identify non-assessable income under the head.

= Deemed income from rént

= TDS from house rent in case of commercial use.

দ Computation of net.tax liability from rent. income.

Practical significance

Income from. rent is the second head of income and very significant for income tax professionals. It
includes some. conceptual issues. and technicalities that require clear understanding about the topic:
Annual value is the value representing the gross rent from house property. It is the higher value of
annual rent and reasonable rent determined by the tax authority. Annual rent is again adjusted for

Page | 89

different expenses and TDS. These computations require some rationality on part of the tenants and
landlords.
Scope of allowable deductions is’ another difficulty. Capitalized expenses. cannot be deducted and in
case of partly let.out properties, expenses: are deducted proportionately’ Repairs and maintenance. is
considered separately depending on the status of the property as either commercial or residential due
to its significance. Advance. receipts from the tenants are considered as income and at the time of
refund it has got'separate treatment. All of these adjustments are very technical and sometimes require
professional judgment and this isthe reason why thé chapter is. practically'significant..
You will find the details of the above issues in this chapter with some practical examples.
Stop and think
Do you realize that the computation of taxable income under the head “Income from rent’ is ‘one of the
basic:requirements for determining tax liability? Can you determine the taxable income under the head?
Do you Understand application of tax:deducted at sotirces by the tenants?
Working context
In practice, as the accountants: are sometimes required to prepare their clients' tax returns, they’ need
to advise the-clients:on how to calculate the taxable: income for any income year under different, heads.
Before advising the clients, accountants should have the clear concept relating to the admissible and
inadmissible ‘expenses in different heads of income so that they can deduct or add the expenses in
determining the'‘taxable income.
Syllabus links . . oe
The topics covered in this chapter are very imiportant:for ‘computing taxable income ‘which is required for
solving sample practical problems. at this level.
\[Examination context

Exam requirements
In the examination, candidates may be required to:

দ Have clear concept'of rent'income.

® Define annual value.

« Recognize the allowable deductions and allowarices.

# Know self-occupancy and its impact,in computing taxable income under the head.

দ |dentify tenant's expenses borne by’the. landlord and landlord’s expenses borne. by the tenants.

« Know TDS rate:and its application in computing net: tax liability.

« Determine interest ‘on borrowed capital and installments for loan taken during construction period.

দ Adjustment of advance received from tenants.

দ Know impact of capitalized expenses in computing house property income.

« Know the application of Vacancy allowance.and allowances for un-collectible rents.

দ Computing repairs and maintenance expenses in different cases.

« Know the treatment of unspent number of repairs and maintenance

« Know the residential and commercial use of house property and its impact on computing taxable

income.

« Understand different status of a house property; fully let out, partly let out and self-occupied.

দ Know penal measures if the landlord does not follow rules/instructions: by the NBR.

s Compute: net tax liability.

Page | 90.

Question practice.
‘For ‘question practice on these topics go to the suggested answers covering this chapter and also this
manual.
Examiner's comments on how students tackle questions
Candidates. have to be prepared well for this area as this chapter-consists of core.concept of computation
of income under the head ‘income: from rent which is vital for calculating total tax liability. Clear concept
and understanding of the contents presented in. this chapterwill help candidates to résolve any problems
relating to computation of'income from the head.
6.0 INCOME FROM RENT
Section overview
> Income from rent is the second head of income.
=> House property may be fully let out, partly let out or self-occupied.
‘> There:are some allowable and some inadmissible deductions under the head.
> Computation of income under the héad.
> House property may be let out for'residential purpose or commercial purpose.
=> Annual value is the higher one between rent received shown by the assessee and reasonable rent.
determined by the DCT.
> Actual rent will be adjusted for expenses and TDS.
> Tenants are ‘sometimes allowed to-deduct.taxes before giving rent to the landlords.
> Landlords can claim allowances for vacancy and uncollected rents.
> Advances received from tenants that are not'adjustable with rents are considered as income.
Pagé | 911

Scope of income from rent:
House p roperty
ay] [4
fees
Taxablei ncome
Annual value (AV)
Less
Admissible deductions:
Repairs & maintenance.
For residential - 25 % of AV
For commercial -30% of AV
Other expenses.
Less
__ Allowances :
Vacancy allowance
Allowance for uncollectible rent
Equals
Taxable Income
Income. from house property is taxable’ on the basis of its annual value of any house property, including
furniture, fixture, fittings etc: whether used for;commercial or residential purposes.
Definition:
4. House property:
Section 3501) of the Income Tax Act, 2023 defines ‘House property’ as. —
(a) Furniture, fixture, ‘fitings which are integral part of the house; and
(b) Theland on which the house is situated. However, shall not;include factory building.
2. Rent:
As per section 35(2) of the Income Tax.Act, 2023, ‘Rent’ means the grant of the right. to use property
‘for a specified period of time without relinquishing ownership or title. However, rent provided by
scheduled bank; investment bank, development financial institution or Mudaraba or leasing company
( owned by itself or not) shall not include ‘Rent’.
Page | 92

3. Property:

Section 35(3) of the Income Tax Act, 2023, provides that. ‘Property’ means house property, land,
furniture, fixture, factory building, business premises, machinery, personal vehicles and any other
physical asset of capital nature, which is rentable.

4. Annual value:

Section 2(62):of the Income Tax Act,.2023, states that, ‘Annual value’ means the rent of any property,
(a) The reasonable: rent.of the property for of the:year; or
(b) Where the arinual rent exceeds the amount'determined (a) above, ‘the annual rent.

Thus, annual value is:not:necessarily be the annual rental income:disclosed by an assessee but the value:

determined as. such by the tax authorities. If the annual rent is higher than the value as determined by

the tax authorities on the basis of the expected rent, annual rent is considered as the annual value.

Where the property is owned by two or more persons and their respective shares are definite and

asceftainable, the owners aré assessable on their respéctive share of income from the property and not

jointly as an. association of persons:

Thus, the annual value. will be ‘the. higher oné between rent received shown by the assessee. arid

reasonable rent determined by the DCT. Actual rent is the amount of rent received or deemed to be.

received by the owner. It may require. some adjustments; as shown below:
Annual Value -———F
Higher one
Rentoactually received/shown
Adjusted for
1. Tenants’ expense: borne by the landlord Less:
2. Landlords’ experise borne by the tenants. Add
3. Tax Deducted at'sources Add.

Quick Guide

Tenants expenses (Expenses for temporary WASA bill, Gas bill, Electricity bill

occupancy)

Landlords, expenses (Expenses for ownership) Municipal tax, Insurance premium, Service

charge, interest.on house building loan etc.

6.1 Income-from rent

1. Rental income shall be computed as total rental value of any property’of a person.less total allowable
expenses mentioned in this chapter.

2. \f any part of the property is engaged for the purpose of own business and income derived from that
business is included ‘Income from business’, such part shall not be included under ‘Income from
rent’.

Page | 93

3. Irrespective of nature. of rent of the property, trade, business, income from rent shall be computed
under the. head “Income from rent:.

_4. Where:more than one person. owns the property, ‘Income from rent’ shall be computed as below:
Where share of the person to the. property is At the rate: proportionate to the. share of
definite and certain ownership
Where share of the person to the property is not | Owners shall be treated as ‘association of person’
certain (AOP) for the purpose of income from rent of the.

property.

6.2 Computation of ‘Income from rent’

Income from rent shall be computed according to below formula, namely —

A=(B+C€ +D)-—E—F, where —

A = Total rent;

B = Total rent received from the property or annual value whichever is higher,

C = The amount of advance rent received from the property in that income year, called by whatever name,
D = Any‘other amount:from the property or monetary value of any: benefit received in ‘the income year’in
excess of the amount:mentioned under B and C above, .

E = Any such advance amount which has.alréady been included in the total income in any previous.income
year.

F = Vacancy allowance

Provided that it required to be informed to the DCT by 30 days every month of non-availability of rental
income orvacancy.

6:3 Allowable.deductions in computing ‘Income from rent’

Following expenses shall be deductible in computing ‘Income from rent’, namely —

(a) Premium paid for any insurance against the risk of loss or destruction of any property;

(b) Interest or profit paid on any capital loan taken from any’ financial institution for acquisition,
construction, renovation, reconstruction. or reconstruction of the property;

(০) Any‘tax, fee or-any other arinual charge paid on the property which is not.in capital nature;

(0). The: amount. mentioned in the below table for expenses related to repairs, rent collection, water and
sewerage, electricity, maintenance and various basic services:

Nature of property Deductible:expense (% of total
rental value)
House property used for non-commercial purpose
Other property (where applicable)

Provided that this exclusion shall not apply where the tenant pays the ‘services charge in addition to the

rént of the property.

(e). If any interest or profit has been paid to any financial institution.on any capital loan used for acquisition,
construction, repair, reconstruction of the property during the pre-rental period, such interest shall be
deductible in equal 3 installment in consecutive income years.

(f) No pre-rental interest‘or profit or any part'thereof (if any).shall not.be deductible beyond the period as
mentioned under (e) above.

Page | 94

6.3 Limitation of-expenditure allowance.

1. In respect of any such expenditure where withholding income tax:was applicable, if tax is not withheld
or collected at:source, if deducted or collected tax is not duly deposited 'to:the Governriient.exchequer
in accordance with the provision of this Act, such expenditure shall not be allowable under ‘this
chapter;

2. Where.the property is rented partially, expenditure shall be allowable. proportionately;

3. Where the property is rented for part of the income year, the expenditure shall be allowable at a rate
proportionate to the period during which the property was rented.

Illustration 1
Mr. B.Rahman owns:a 5 storied residential house'with 3 flats in each floor: This, isa fully let-out house
property and monthly rent of each flatis Tk. 8,000. Yearly reasonable rentof the house is Tk. 16,00,000.
Compute annual value.
_ Annual value:
Actual rent [Tk. 8,000 x3 x5 x12] ‘Tk. 1,440,000
Reasonable rent Tk. 1,600,000
Annual value, whichever is higher Tk. 1,600,000
Illustration 2
Mr. B. Rahman owns 4:5 storied residential house with 3-flats in. each 0061. He occupied all the flats in
second floor for his own residence purpose. Other flats are let out for residential purpose and monthly
rent of each flat is Tk. 8,000. Yearly reasonable rent of the whole house is: Tk. 1,600,000. Compute
‘annual value.
Annual value:
Actual rent [Tk: 8,000 x3 x4 x12] Tk. 1,152,000
Reasonable rent [Tk. 1,600,000 * 12/15] Tk. 1,280,000
Annual value, whichever is higher: Tk: 1,280;000
Illustration 3 [In case of tenant's burden borne by landlord]
Mr. B Rahman owns a 5 storied residential house with 3 flats in each floor. He occupied. all the flats in,
second floor’for his own residence purpose. Other flats are let out for residential purpose and monthly:
rent of each flat is Tk. 8,000 including Tk. 1,000 for water, gas and electricity bill of the tenant. Yearly
reasonable rent of‘the'whole. house is Tk. 1,600,000. Compute. annual value.
Annual value:
Actual rent [Tk. 8,000 x3 x4 স12] Tk.1,;152,000
Less: Tenantis expense: borne by landlord [11০ 1,000 x3 x4 x12]. Tk._144,000
Actual rent after.adjustment .
4,008,000,
Reasonable rent [Tk. 1,600,000 x 12/15] :
1,280,000
Annual value, whichever is higher: Tk. 1,280,000
Page | 95

Illustration 4 [In case of owner's burden borne by the tenant]
Mr. B. Rahman owns a 5 storied residential house. with 3 flats in each floor. He occupied all the flats in
second floor for residence purpose. Other'flats are let out for residential purpose and monthly rent of each
flat is Tk...8,000. In addition to monthly rent, tenants: also bear municipal tax@ Tk. 10,000 per tenant.
annually. Yearly reasonable rent of'the whole house. is Tk. 1,600,000. Compute annual value.
Annual value:
Actual rent [Tk. 8,000 x3 x4 x12] Tk.1,152,000
Add: Landlord's exp. borne by tenant [Tk. 10,000 x3: x4] _ 120,000
Actual rent after adjustment . 1,272,000:
Reasonable rent [Tk. 1,600,000 x 12/15] . 1,280,000
Annual value, whichever is higher: . Tk. 1,280;000
Illustration 5
Mr. B. Rahman owns.a 5:storied building which is let out:to a business house. After deducting taxes,
Mr. 8. Rahman receives Tk. 1,900,000 annually. Mr. B Rahman. is responsible to pay for all gas,
electricity and water bills of the tenant which. amount to Tk. 80,000 annually. However, as per
agreement, the business house‘is required to pay municipal tax and. insurance premium for the building
which amounts to another Tk. 180,000.. Yearly reasonable rent of the house is Tk. 2,000,000. Compute
arinual value. [Note: Applicablé TDS rate. is 5%]
Annual value:
Actual rent after TDS: Tk.1,900,000
Add:. Landlord's expense borne by tenant. 180,000
Add: TDS [(Tk. 1,900,000/1-0.05) x 0.05] 100,000
Less: Tenant's expense borne by landlord (80,000)
Actual rent after adjustment 2,100,000
Reasonable. rent 2,000,000
Annual value, whichever is higher: Tk. 2,100,000
6.4 Formalities to be followed by the landlord receiving monthly rent more than Tk.25,000
According to rule 8A of Income Tax Rules 1984, in case of let out property if the gross monthly rent
exceeds Tk. 25,000'the owner shall have 10:
(a) Maintain bank account and deposit entire monthly rent directly to the:account (Irrespective of part
orfull of rent is: received iri cash);
(b) Maintain a register about tenants, house rent.received from the tenants.
According to 267 of the Income’Tax Act, 2023, if he fails:to do .so'then penalty may be imposed by. the
income tax authority @, 50% ‘of tax on house property income or Tk. 5,000 whichever is higher.
6.5 Tax.to be deducted at source from house property
Where the tenant:in respect of a house property is the:government or any authority having the authority
to deduct'taxes, shall deduct @ 5% ‘tax:as advance tax. But-such amount of tax is subject'to refund if
income of the owner is not tax: payable or if amount of advance tax is more than the owner's total tax
liability. No: such deduction is required when the. owner’ holds certificate. stating that there: is. no
‘assessable income against 'this.assessee..
According to section 109 of the ITA;.2023 —
Page | 96

1. Where the tenant is a deducting authority ৪৪ per section 109 of the ITA, 2023 in respect of a house
property, the tenant:.shall deduct tax @5% from the house rent paid or payable.

2. Where, after the assessment made for the relevant year, it is found that.no tax was payable by the
owner of the house property or the amount of tax deducted is in excess of the amount payable, the
amount:deducted shall be refunded,

(a) 170 tax'was payable, in full, or:
(b) if the amount, deducted is in excess of the amount payable, to the extent of the excess
deduction to the-owner of the house. property.

3. Where the DCT, on an application made in this behalf, gives a certificate in the prescribed form to
an owner of house property that, to the best of his belief, the owner is not likely to have any
assessable income during the year or the income is otherwise exempted from payment of income
tax under‘any provisions of this Act, payment referred to in sub-section (1) shall be made without,
any deduction until the certificate is cancelled.

Rate of TDS from house property —

According to séction 109 of ‘the. ITA, 2023,. every person mentioned in that section who. is responsible

formaking any payment to the owner of a house. property on account of house rent shall deduct tax @

5% on such payment.

Worked examples and solutions

Worked example 1:

Mr. Mushtaque Ahmed’s house is let out at Tk.. 10,000 per month. Income year ended on 30 June 2023.

Tenant quitted the house.on 31 March 2023: and owed Tk. 20,000 for rent being unpaid.. House

remained vacant for 3 months during the alterations. Thé owner claimed thé following deductions:

Tk.
Cost of répairs 15,000
Alterations. expenses. 30,000
Interest on’ mortgage 12,000
Fire insurance premium 5,000
Municipal tax 10,000

Legal action to recover unpaid rent which was later realized — Tk. 6,000.

Required: Compute his house property income.

Solution 1:

Mr. Mushtaque Ahmed

Assessment year 2023-24

Income for year ended on 30:June, 2023

Computation of income from rent:

Annual value:

Page | 97

Annual rent (Tk. 10,000 x 12 months) 120,000
Reasonable rent Not given
Whichever is higher Tk. 120,000
Less: Allowable deductions:
Repair & maintenance 25% of Tk. 120,000 30,000
Interest on. mortgage 12,000
Fire Insurance premium 5,000
Municipal tax 10,000
Vacancy allowance (Tk. 10,000 x 3) 30,000
Total Deductions Tk.'87,000
Taxable income under section 24 33,000
Deemed income: u/s 19(30) Tk.30,000-15,000-6,000 9,000
Net income from house property Tk. 42,000.
Worked example 2:
Mr. Farug owns.a residential house at Santinagar, Dhaka, which was constructed 10 years back. with a
15% loan of Tk. 20,00,000 from House Building Finance Corporation. The house has been let out for
commercial purpose @ Tk. 150,000 per month. The reasonable rent of the house is Tk. 15,00,000.
The following 6xpenses were incurred in the income:year 2022-23 for that house:
1. Repair expense Tk. 44,000;
2. City Corporation Tax Tk. 35,000;
3. Rent collection experises Tk. 12,000;
4. Fire:insurance premium Tk. 8000 per quarter;
Compute income from house property for the assessment year.2023-24.
Solution 2:
Mr. Faruq
Assessment year: 2023-24
Income year: 2022-23
Computation of income from rent
Computation of house: property income
Annual value:
Actual rent (Tk. 150,000 = 12 months). 18;00,000
Reasonable refit 15;00,000
Whichever is higher Tk.18;00,000:
Less: Allowable deductions u/s 25
Repair & maintenance 30% of Tk. 18,00,000 5;40,000
City Corporation tax 35,000
Fire Insurance premium (Tk. 8,000 x 4) 32,000
Interest on HB loan (15% of Tk. 20,00,000) 3,00,000
Page | 98.

Total deductions Tk. 9,07,000

Income u/s 24 8,93.000

Deemed income u/s 19(30) 4,84,000

Net income from house property u/s 24 &19(30) Tk. 13,77,000

Notes:

1. Since the house is:let out‘for commercial purpose, repair and maintenance expense. is considered
as 30% of the annual value. Here actual spending for repair expenses and collection expenses is
less than 30%. So, the unspent amount [Tk.5,40,000-44,00012,000=4,84,000] will be: treated as.
income from house property as per section19(30).

2. Annual expehsés should be deducted from the annual vallie of the house. So, fire insurance
premium is converted to.annual figure by multiplying 4 with quarterly premium.

Worked example 3:

Mr. Marwari. has.a house at Mohakhali C/A with an 3168 of 4,800 square feet: He. let out this house to

‘a computer firm at:an annual rent of Tk. 600,000.. The reasonable rent. per square feet at Mohakhali

commercial. area is 120:The following expenses. 'were incurred in the income year 2022-23 for that

house:

1. Repair‘expense Tk. 90,000;

2. City Corporation Tax.Tk. 15,000;

3. Fire insurance premium Tk. 9,000;

4. Night guard's ‘salary Tk.'7,000;

‘5. Installation of electricity line: Tk. 25,000;

During the year Mr. Marwari paid installment of loan to HBFC Tk.67,500 (out-of which principal amount

is Tk. 64,000). Accordirig to. the. agreement the owner bears the water and. gas bill of the tenant which

amounted to Tk. 20,000 for the year. Compute income from house. property for the income year ended

30" June 2023.

Solution 3:

Mr.. Marwari

Income year: 2022-23

Assessment year: 2023-24

Computation of income‘from rent

Annual value:

Actual rent 600,000

Less: Tenant's expense borne. by the landlord 20,000

Revised actual rent. 580,000

Reasnable rent:(4,800xTk. 120) 576,000

higher-one: 580,000

Less: Allowable deductions u/s 25

Repair and maintenance —:30% of Tk. 5,80,000. 174,000

City Corporation tax, 15,000

Fire Insurance premium 9,000

Interest.on borrowed fund (Tk.67,500— Tk: 64,000) 3,500

201,500

Income from rent 378,500

Page | 99

Notes:
1. Installation of electricity line: is a capital expenditure, so this is not admissible.
Worked example 4:
Mr. Pakrasi is‘the owner of three houses at Gulshan, Dhaka; Khulsi, Chittagong: and Mia Bazar, Comilla.
Details:of these houses are given below:
— Gulshan Khulsi Bazar
Number of:floors 3 1 2
Number: of flats in each floor: 2 1 4
Reasonable rent (annual) 9,00,000 120,000 7,00,000
Rental value (each. flat per month) 12,000 - 7,000
Expenses incurred: 80,000 25,000 65,000
Repair and maintenance
Insurance premium (quarterly) 2,000 + 1,500
Salary of guard . 15,000 5,000 7,000
Ground rent 2,000 3,000 -
Municipal tax (per month) 1,200 600 500
Interest on HB loan 5,000 4,000
In Gulshan, Dhaka one flat remains vacant for two months and in Mia Bazar, Comilla two flats are
occupied by his sons who are.fully dependent on him. House at Gulshan has been let:out for residential
purpose: while: house at Mia Bazar has been let out to'a commercial firm. Compute income from house
property for the income year ended 30" June 2023.
Solution 4:
Mr. Pakrasi
Income year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24
Computation of income from rent
House at Gulshan: তা Tk.
Actual rent (12,000 x 12 x 3 x.2) 864,000
Reasonable rent (4,800 = Tk. 120) 900,000
Whichever is higher 900,000
Less: Allowable: deductions:
Repair and maintenance -.25% of Tk. 9,00,000 225,000
Ground rent 2,000
Insurance premium (2,000 x.4) 8,000
Municipal tax (1,200 x 12) 14,400
Interest on HB loan 5,000
Vacancy allowance [(9,00,000 x 1/6) x 2/12] 25,000
Total deductions 279,400 .
Page | 100

Income from house at Gulsahn 620,600
House at: Mia Bazar:
Actual rent (7,000 x 12x 3 x 2) 504,000
Municipal value (Tk. 7,00,000 x 6/8) 525,000
higher.oné- 525,000
Less: Allowable:deductions
Repair and maintenance — 30% of Tk: 525,000 157,500
Insurance premium [(1,500.x 4) x 6/8) 4,500
Municipal tax [(500 x: 12) x 6/8) 4,500
Intereston HB loan [4000 x 6/8] 3,000
Total deductions 169,500
Income. from house at Mia Bazar 355,500
Total income from rent 976,100
Notes:
1. House at Khulsi is elf-occupied, so there is no tax implication because it was not let-out.
2. No income was taken on those flats occupied by his son as it was not also let-out:
Worked example 5:
Mr. Jamilur Rahman is the owner of a five-storied building at Lalmatia. He resides with his family in the
2° floor and all other floors (in each floor there are two units) are let out for residential purpose at a
monthly rent of Tk. 10,000 per flat including Tk. 1,000 as WASA and DESA bill. The reasonable rent.of
the house. is Tk. 1,000,000. Mr: Jamilur Rahman also receives Tk. 450,000:as security money from the
tenant which is not: adjustable against rent of the-units during the income year ended on June 30, 2023.
Mr. Rahman claims the following deductions:
1. Repair expenses Tk. 130,000;
2. Land development tax Tk. 22,000;
3. Insurance premium Tk. 16,000;
4. Carétaker-and Night guard salaty Tk. 24,000;
5. Ground rent Tk..2,000;
6. Alteration cost for ground floor’ Tk. 30,000.
Mr. Rahivian has taken a building rénovation loan of Tk. 1,500,000 at a flat interest rate of 18% from
BRAC Bank limited on December 15, 2018. During the year-one of the tenants in the ground floor left
the house without paying rent for‘one month. Mr. Rahman even.after taking necessary legal action fails
to collect this rent. Besides, the same flat remained vacant for another two months during the year.
Compute income from: house property forthe income year ended 30" June 2023.

Page.| 101

Solution 5:
‘Mr. Jamilur Rahman
Income year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24
Computation of ‘income from rent.

- Ik.

Actual rent (Tk. 10,000 4 x 2.x. 12) 960,000

Less: Tenants’ expense borne. by the landlord (Tk. 1,000 = 4 x 2 x 12) 96,000
864,000

Reasonable rent (1,000,000 * 4/5) 800,000

Whichever is higher 864,000

Add: Security money received (note-1) 450,000

Annual value + security money 1,314,000

Less: Allowable:deductions

Repair and maintenance — 25% of Tk: 864,000 2:16;000

Land Development tax (4/5) 17,600

Insurance premium (4/5) 12,800

Ground rent (4/5) 1,600

Vacancy allowance (Tk. 864,000 = 1/8x 2/12) 18,000

Allowance তি-076০০॥600816. rent (Tk. 864,000 = 1/8 1/12) 9,000

Interest‘on borrowed fund (18% of Tk. 1,500,000) 270,000

Total deductions 545,000

Total income from rent 769,000

Note 1: The amount received as security money 'not adjustable against rent is.deemed to be the income

ofthe assessee for the income year in which it is received'and be-classified under the head “Income from

rent’.

Worked example 6:

Mr.Subir Mazumder is the owner of a two-storied building at Dhanmondi where he stays with his family

in ground floor and the 1st floor was let out.to a government authority at a gross monthly rent.of Tk.

30,000: However, he has: taken a 13% loan of Tk. 500,000 on November 01, 2020. from HBFC for

modernization of the 1* floor of his building and the floor rémained vacarit for two months during the

modernization period. It is again let out to the same authority from January 1, 2021 at a gross monthly

rent of Tk. 50,000. The governmentauthority deducts tax at source.at prescribed rate before payirig the

rent to him. The reasonable rent. of the house is Tk. 900,000.

The following expenses were incurred in the.income year 2021-22 for his whole. building:

1. Repair expenses Tk. 50,000;

2. City Corporation Tax Tk. .22,000;

3. Insurance premium Tk. 10,000;

4. Carétakerand Night guard salary Tk. 24,000;

5. Land revenue. paid Tk. 2,000.

Page | 102

Compute income from house property for the income year ended 30" June 2022.
Solution 6:
Mr. Subir Mazumder
Income year: 2021-22
Assessment year: 2023-24
Computation of income from rent
Actual rent (Tk. 30,000 = 6) + (Tk. 50,000 x 6) 480,000
Reasonable rent (900,000 = 1/2) 450,000
Whichever is higher 480,000
Less: Allowable deductions
Repair and maintenance-— 30% of Tk..480,000 444,000
City Corporation tax (50% allowed being 50% of the house was let out and annual value
was‘ taken accordingly) 11,000
নে বোন তে ee = 0 ;
Insurance premium (50%) 8,000
Land revenue (50%) 1,000
Vacancy allowance (Tk..30,000x2. months) 60.000
Interest on borrowed fund (500,000 x 13% x.8 months) 43.333
Total deductions 267,333
Total income from rent 212,667
Worked example 7:
Ms. ‘Halima Khatun owns two houses; one at Sutrapur and another at Lalbagh. From the following
particulars compute her income form house property for the income year 2022-23 and also tax liability
for the assessment year 2023-24.
House at Sutrapur: This is a three storied building (in each floor there are two flats). One of the flats
in first floor is used as residence. by Ms. Halima Khatun and the other flat in the same floor is uséd by
her son-in-law who pays nothing for it. All other flats were let out at a monthly rent of Tk. 8,000 each:
Thé municipal value of the house.is Tk..4,80,000. She has also received Tk. 1,00,000.as advance from
the tenants which is not adjustable against.rent. Expenses of the house for the year were. as follows:
White wash expense Tk. 20,000
Rent.collection expense 3,000
City Corporation tax,. quarterly 2,400
Land revenue paid 12,000
Salary:of guard, monthly 500
Page.| 103

Loan repayment:to HBFC (including interest Tk. 4,200) 42,500
Installation of generator 15,000
Thé owner bears; thé éléctricity and gas bill of the tenants which amounted to Tk. 30,000 for the year.
One flat remains vacant for two months during the year and she claims vacancy-allowance.
House at Lalbagh:
The house is let out to a private bank branch and received monthly rent of Tk. 47,500 . ‘The municipal
value. of the house is Tk. 6,00,000. Expenses of the house for the“year were as follows:
Fire insurance premium Tk. 25,000
Municipal tax Tk.. 12,000
Cost:of alteration Tk. 55,000
Ground rent Tk. 10,000
Legal expenses Tk. 12,000
According to the terms of the agreement the bank has to bear.service charge which amounted to Tk.
15,000 for the year. During the year, Ms. Halima Khatun incurred the following investments and
expenses:
Family expenses Tk. 350,000
Insurance. premium:
Own (policy value Tk. 500,000) 40,000
Spouse (policy value Tk. 500,000) 60,000
Investment in shares in secondary market 25,000
Donation to the President's relief fund 20,000
Donation. to a local club 6,000
Donation to Government Zakat fund 30,000
Donation to a Mosque 10,000
Solution 7:
Ms. Halima Khatun
Income year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24
Computation of income from rent:
[1] House at Sutrapur: Tk. Tk.
Annual value:
Actual rent (8000 x 4 x 12) (As ‘1 flat'was riot let out to son-in-law so there 384.000
is no scope to determine annual value.as per section 2(7)) ,
Less: Tenant’s burden paid by landlord 30,000
Revised actual rent 354,000
Reasonable rent (480,000 x 4/6) 320,000.
Whichever is higher 354,000
Add: Nonadjustable advance. 100,000
Page | 104

454,000

Less: Allowable:deductions

Repair & maintenance (354,000.X 25%) 88,500

City Corporation Tax (2400 x 4 x 4/6) 6,400

Land revenue paid (12000 x.4/6) 8,000

Interest paid'‘to HBFC (4,200 x 4/6) 2,800
Vacancy'allowance (8,000 x.2) 16,000 _

Total deductions 121,700

Income from rent 332,300.

[2] House at Lalbagh:

Annual value:

Actual rent [Tk. 47,500 x 12] 570,000

Add: TDS [570,000 x 5/100-5] 30,000

Add: Landlord’s burden paid by tenant 15,000

Actual rental value 615,000

Reasonable. rent 600,000.

Whicheveris higher 615,000 _

Less: Allowable:deductions

Repair & maintenance. (615,000.x 30%) 184,500,

Fire Insurance premium 25,000

Municipal tax 12,000

Ground rent 10,000.

Total deductions 231,500

Income from rent " 383,500:
Total income from rent 715,800, |
Calculation of investment allowance for tax rebate:

Actual investment: Tk. Ik.
Insurarice premium

Own 40,000

Maxirtium limit (500,000 x: 10%) 50,000 40,000
Spouse 60,000:

Maximum limit (600,000 x 10%) 50,000. 50,000
Donation to Government Zakat fund 30,000
Investment in shares at secondary market 25,000
Total investment 145,000
Investment rebate: Lower of i) Tk.21,450 (0.03.X 715,800) or ii) TK 21,750 (0.15 X 145,000) and iii):
Tk 10 lakh. .

Page.| 105

Calculation of tax liability:
YF Rte Amount (7)

On the first Tk. 350,000

On the next’ 100,000 5,000

On the next 265,000 26,580

roma

Less: investment tax rebate pS 21,450

Net tax liability Po | 19130

Self-assessment questions

(a) Define “Annual Value” of a property under the Income Tax Act, 2023.

(b) Is the ‘Annual value’ of a property to be determined when it is occupied by its owner for
residential purposes?

(d) | What are the allowable deductions from annual value in determining the ‘Income from 00096
property’ under the Act?

(6) _ lf any owner of the house received house rent more than Tk. 25,000 per month then what
formalities to be maintained. by him as per Rule-8A of |.T. Act, 2023? What will happen if he does
not follow the rules and instructions issued by the NBR?

Page | 106

আক ০০০০০ RR i i ed i mee
Gee Ze eg LAS BEES ৯২২২ a dee 9 রর
Chapter 7
Income from agriculture
[Contents ,
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list
, 7.1 [| Basic principles of income from agriculture — BO ডেট
| 7.2 Characteristics of income from agrictiture.
| 7.3 Special agricultural income ।
| 7.4} Non-agricultural income |
| 7.5 Income:from agricultural house. property
: 7.6 | General allowable deductions in computing income from agriculture = ee:
i 2F Calculation of special deductions in case ‘of non-maintenance of books of accounts
i 7.8 | Depreciation allowance |
| 7.9 Non-asseéssable agricultural income
| 7.10 | Special reduced tax rates
Worked examples
(Introduction
Learning objectives
» Identify income from agriculture:
= Compute the‘taxable income under'the head ‘income from agriculture’.
* Identify different types of agricultural income..
® Identify the allowable deductions under the head.
x |llustrate the non-assessable income under the head.:
2 Identify the area ‘of reduced tax rate.
» Identify: partly agricultural income and partly business income.
= Compute net tax liability in different:situations.
Page.| 107

Practical significance
The head ‘Income from agriculture’ has good potential'for increasing the revenue to the Government in
Bangladesh dué to its significance.. Bangladesh is an agricultural country and its-agriculture:sector has
significant contribution to GDP every year. But, collection of tax from this head is ‘insignificant. Here,
professional accountants can, play an important role by devising the way of collecting tax under the
head through simplification and modernization of tax laws and process.
This chapter presents. different form of agricultural income, allowable deductions, and non-assessable
income under the head, non-agricultural income, and other related topics. A clear understanding on
each, topic presented in the chapter will make the students expert to give opinions ‘to their clients. in tax
related issues.
You will'find the details of the above issues in this chapter with some practical example.
Stop. and think.
Do you realize that the computation of taxable income under the head ‘income from agriculture’ is one
of the basic‘requirements for.determining tax liability? Can you determine the taxable income under the
head? Can you compute net tax liability ofan assessee having income under the head?
Working context
In practice, as the accountants are sometime required to support to prepare their clients’ tax returns,
they need to-advise the clients on how to calculate the total taxable income for any income year. Before
advising ‘the: cliénts, accountants should have: the clear concept relating to the admissible and
inadmissible expenses'so that they can deduct or add the expenses in determining the taxable income:
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are very important for computing taxable:income which is required for
solving, sample practical problems at this level.
You will be also using this knowledge when you tackle. the taxation paper later on in the Professional
Stage and it will also underpin ‘the technical aspects at the Advanced Stage.
\[Examination context
Exam requirements
In the examination, candidates may be required to:
® Define income from agriculture.
দ Identify different types of agricultural income.
= Compute the'taxable income under'the head ‘Income from agriculture’.
2 Differentiate’fully, partly‘and other agricultural income..
® Identify the allowable deductions under this head.
2 illustrate the non-assessable income under this: head..
» Know the application of reduced tax rate and areas where this tax rate is applicable.
® Define non-agricultural income and its impact on computing total income and tax liability.
= Compute net'tax liability in different situations.
Page | 108

Question practice.

For question practice on these topics go to the suggested answers covering this chapter and also this
manual.

Examiner's comments on how students tackle questions

Candidates. have ‘to be. prepared well for this aréa as this chapter consists of core concept ‘on
computation of income which jis vital for calculating tax liability. Clear concept and understanding of
each content of this chapter ‘will help candidates. to resolve any problems relating to. computation of
agricultural income.

7.0 INCOME FROM AGRICULTURE:

Section overview

> Income from agriculture.is one. of the important heads; of income.

> The total income may:not.be taxable income.

>. There.are some allowable, inadmissible ‘and not permissible deductions under the head.

=> Some income under the head is not. assessable.

>On some specific classes of income under the head is taxed at a reduced rate.

> Depreciation allowance on agricultural property is: different.

> A part of the gain on sale of agricultural asset will be reported as. income from agriculture.

> It is very important to know non-agricultural income and partly agricultural income.

> Advance tax need not be payable on agricultural income up to Tk 8 lakh.

7.1 Scope of income from agriculture
According to section 40 of the Income Tax Act, 2023:—

1. Income earned by'a person ‘from any activities related to agriculture shall be classified under the
head ‘Income from agriculture’. ৰা .

2. 40% of proceeds from tea and. rubber proditction or process by any person shall be considered as
business income and 60% ‘shall be considered as ‘income’from agriculture’.

3. Agriculture. means any kind of horticulture, animal husbandry, natural use of land, poultry and fish
farms, reptile farms, nurseries, any kind of cultivation on land or water;.egg and milk production,
timber, grass and shrubs, production of fruit, flower and honéy. and production of 5660 shall ৮6
included.

7.2 Characteristics of agricultural income

a) Income should be derived from land. A. person may transfer his agricultural land to another in
consideration of a life annuity as'was in the case of Gopal Saran Narain Singh V CIT 1935, ITR 237
(P.C) or of other thing which is:charged. upon the land. Thé:annual receipt.would not be.agricultural
income.

b) The land on which agricultural income is assessed must be situated in Bangladesh.

০) The land must be used for agricultural purpose. Unless there is some measure of cultivation of the
land, 'some expenditure of skill and labor upon it, it cannot be: said to
be: used for agricultural purposes: Income from. the sale of forest trees, bushes, bamboos, fruits
and flowers growing on land naturally without any human skill and labour is not agricultural income.
Income derived from the sale of wild grass or trees of spontaneous growth is not agricultural
income. But land leased for grazing or pasturing animals required for agricultural purpose is used

Page. | 109

for agricultural purposes and income from lease is agricultural income irrespective of whether the
grass on the land is cultivated or grown naturally.

0) No-.advance tax is payable. on agricultural income up to Tk 800,000.

7.3 Special agricultural income
According to section 41 of the Income Tax Act, 2023._
1. Without prejudice to the section 40 of ITA, 2023, the provision of section 41 shall be apply to compute
special agricultural income.
2. As per section 41 (2), if an asset is sold in any income year after being used by the assessee for
agricultural purpose under section 40, it shall be: computed as follows, namely —
[ Ifsale proceeds is 17016 07817 the acquisition Income from capital gain =A- B
value Income from agriculture = 8 - C
If sale proceeds is not more that acquisition’ Income from agriculture = A - C
value: but exceeds: written down value. (WDV)
3. As per section 41 (3), if in any income ‘year the amount received as insurance, salvage or
compensation due to the abandonment, destruction of any asset being used by the assesses in his
agricultural work, exceeds the WDV, the said amount shall be included under the head ‘Income from
agriculture’ as below, namely —
If insurance, salvage or compensation value Income from capital gain=A- B
is more than. the acquisition value Income from agriculture. = B - C
If insurance, ‘salvage or compensation value Income from agriculture =A - C
is not more that acquisition value but.
exceeds Written down value (WDV)
এ. For the purpose of section 41, —

A= Sale proceeds of the.asset or insurance, salvage or compensation value of the asset

B = Acquisition, value of the:asset

C= Written down value (WDV) of the asset after allowing depreciation under third schedule

5. If difference between sale proceeds or salvage/compensation value and WDV of the asset being
used in agricultural purpose is negative i.e. loss, the loss shall be'treated as allowable expense for
the purpose of computation of ‘Income:from agricultural’.

7.4 Non-agricultural income
Sometimes, we may. be confused with some income not generated from agriculture but may be closely
rélated ‘to that. A possible list'is given below and.any income from these sources should be considered
as income from other-sources.
(i) Income from ভা ghat and mooring terminal
(ii) Income from sale of produce that grow up in the agricultural land without agricultural works
é.g., forest trees, wild grass, fruit and flowers grown spontaneously and without human effort
(iii) Income from salt production by flooding the land with sea water and then extracting salt there:
from
(iv) Income. from cutting and-selling of timber-on contract
Page | 110

(v) Interest on arrear of rent for agricultural land
(vi) Income from letting out vacant land not used for agricultural purpose
(vii). Royalty / ground rent against lease of larid for mining, pottéries, quarries etc.
(viii). Sale of soil used for brick field
(ix) Income from sale of water used for irrigation
(x) Income from sale: of forest trees, flowers, bamboo, wild grass, reeds. or fruits produced
naturally without-any agricultural work
(xi) Sale of stones from quarries
(001) Income from:salary for working as an agricultural supervisor / manager
(xiii) Income from sale of crops Which has been purchaséd from others for resale
(xiv) Income from dairy firm established for business purpose’
(xv) Income from poultry firm established ‘separately for business purpose (xvi) Income from
fisheries established for business purpose (xvii) Fish hunting, ship anchor etc.
(xviii) Income derived from butter‘and cheese. making
(xix) Income received as commission for working as middleman in agro products
(xx) Remuneration received by managing agent ata fixed percentage of net profit‘from a company
having agricultural income.
(xxi) Interest received by:an assésséé.against loan in the form of agricultural produce (xxii) Dividend
"paid by-a company out of its agricultural income.
7.5 Income from agricultural house property
When the property is occupied by the cultivator or the recipient where any process as may be described
agricultural, is. carried therein by the tecipient of agricultural income, or in the immediate. vicinity of
agricultural land, and is used asa dwelling house by the cultivator or the-recipient of agricultural income,
in connection with the land, any income from such house property is regarded as agricultural income. But
non-agricultural income does not become agricultural by reason of ‘only in direct connection with
agricultural land [Premier Construction Co. V.C.LT. 1948 1.7. 380, 384].
7.6 General allowable.deductions in computing income ‘from agriculture
As per section 42 of ITA, 2023, in computing ‘Income from agriculture’ in any income year, the amount
wholly and exclusively expended (not:capital or personal expenditure) for the purpose: of agriculture, shall
৮6 treated as allowable deduction. And following deduction shall be. treated as general allowable
deduction, namely —.
(a) Any’tax, land dévelopment'tax:or khajana paid on land or ground used for agricultural purpose;
(b) Rent payable for land or ground used for agricultural purpose, development .and maintenance
expense and cultivation expense;
(c) Interest, or profit payable on loan taken for:agricultural purpose;
(d) Repair and maintenance of machinery and equipment used ‘for agricultural purpose, rearing of
livestock for cultivation, processing or transport related expenditure;
(6) Insurance premium;
(9 Expenditure for protecting agriculture from natural calamities or other damages;
(8) Depreciation and amortization expense as per third Schedule of*this. Act;
(h) Where animal which was used for agricultural purpose has died or become permanently disabled, the
difference between purchase price and sale proceeds of animal or its meat:
(i) Any expenditure (not in capital nature) incurred in connection with a visit abroad as a member of any
Government’sponsored agricultural delegation;
(jy Any expenditure incurred on training to Bangladeshi citizens related to such scheme as approved by
the Board; 7
(k) Expenditure incurred in conducting scientific research related to agriculture or expenditure incurred
in conducting such scientific research whereby the research is conducted wholly and exclusively of
‘the purpose of agricultural development of the'taxpayer in. Bangladesh.
Note that. only so much of expenditure related to income from agriculture shall be treated as, allowable
expenditure.
Page.| 111]

7.7 Calculation of special deductions in case of non-maintenance of books of accounts
According to séction 43: of the lncome Tax Act, 2023, where it appears that, -
(a) The assessee does not applying accounting system regularly;
(b) The assessee is applying an method on the basis of which it appears to the DCT that it is not
possible:to arrive at a-conclusion. as to the income. ofthe assessee;
(c) The assessee has failed to maintain accounts and transactions; or
(d) Accounts or transaction maintained by the assessee are not'verificable.
ln such case, notwithstanding anything contained in any other section, 60% of market value of the
agricultural produced shall 06 treated as allowable expenditure.
Note that above: provision shall not apply in case where the owner receive income from Adhi, Borga,
Bhaga, or-share.
Section 44 of ITA, 2023 statés that if withholding tax is not-applied (where applicable) on any expenditure,
such expenditure. shall not be treated as allowable expenditure.. Additionally, the provision of section 55
of ITA, 2023 as if the provision Was related to ‘income: from agricultural’.
7.8 Dpreciation allowance.
According to part 1 of Third Schedule of ITA, 2023, depreciation allowance in respect of any: capital
asset, works or physical infrastructure owned by a taxpayers used for-agricultural purpose, depreciation
shall be allowed. as per below table:
1. A building or:structure constructed by brick, concrete, steel or-similar material 5%
2. [70096 constructed by tin, bamboo or similar materials 10%
3. Permanent fence 10%
4. Tube — well 10%
‘5. Tank 10%
6. Irrigation works, channels, pipes 10%
7. Agricultural instruments made by wood or bamboo 20%
8. Weight machine 10%
9. Tractors, oil engines and light machinery 10%
10. Truck, delivery van, other motor vehicle. 10%
11. Piper pumping equipment 20%
12. Non-mechanical van 15%
13. Steam engine 10%
14. Factory machinery 15%
15..Any:such common instrument, tools, plant and other property. 10%
7.9 Non-assessable agricultural income.
According to Sixth Schedule, Part. 1; Para.20 of ITA, 2023, income up to Tk,200,000 of any. individual
assessee under the head ‘Income from agricultural’ shall be exempted from tax if the said individual —
(a) Isa farmer by profession;
Page | 112

(0) Does not have any income other than following income, namely —
(i) income arising land cultivation;
(ii) Income not more than 20,000 from interest or profit.
Illustration 1
Mr. Rajib reports Tk. 12,00,000.as income from agriculture during the:income year ended on June 30,
2022. He has no income from ০0765001065. In this case, Mr. Rajib will pay taxes on Tk..650;000 only:
His non-assessable: income is Tk. 5,50,000 (Tk. 3,50,000 + Tk. 2,00,000). It is assumed that Mr. Rajib
doesn’t fall in: elderly citizen or disable. category.
7.10 Special reduced tax rates
(a) Tax rate on income from fisheries, hatchery and Poultry has been re-shuffled through SRO
No. 157 dated 01/6/2022 with. effect'from the assessment year 2023-24 which is as follows:
Up to Tk10,00,000
On next Tk.10,00,000.
(b) Any income from pelleted poultry feed production; seed production, marketing of locally produced
seeds, and livestock’ farming, frog farming, horticulture, mulberry farming, ‘sericulturé,, mushroom
farming and floriculture will be taxed at the following reduced tax rate as per SRO. no-199 dated
30/6/2015:
On rest amount of income
Some basic operations like application of human skill and labor on the land are’ required to constitute
agriculture.. Thus, spontaneous: growth of forest tréés without ‘the aid of any human agency is rot
regarded as income from. agriculture.
Worked examples and solutions
Worked example 1
Relevant information regarding the agricultural income of Mr. Jamal Ahmed for the year ended on June
30, 2023 is: given below:
Sale of paddy 150 maunds.@ Tk. 600 per maund
‘Sale of jute 100 maunds.@'Tk..800 per maund
Sale of rabi crops Tk. 65,000
Income from barga Tk. 20;000
Page.| 113

Lease rental of agricultural land 630,000
Expenses relating to this income-are as follows:
Cost of seeds and fertilizer Tk. 40,000
Cultivation cost 65,000
Transportation cost 15,000
Ordinary processing cost’ 25,000
Land revenue paid 7,000
Crop. insurance premium 5,600.
Allowable ‘depreciation 3,000
Interest on borrowed fund 2,800
Compute total income of Mr. Jamal. Ahmed assuming that:
(a). he did not maintain proper books of accounts
(b) he maintained necessary books of accounts:
Solution 1:
(a) When proper books of accounts are. not maintained:
Mr. Jamal Ahmed.
Income year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24
Computation of agricultural income
Income from agricultural :
Sale of paddy (150 x Tk. 600) 90,000
Sale of jute (100.x Tk. 800) ৪0,000
Sale of rabi crops 65,000
Income from barga 20,000
Lease rental of agricultural land 30,000
2,85,000
Less: Admissible expenses:
1. Production cost (235,000 x 60%) 1,41,000
3. Union parisad tax. 4,400
4. Crop insurance premium 5,600
5. Allowable depreciation 3,000
6.. Interest on borrowed fund 2,800
1,56,800
1,28,200
Total income 1,28,200.
(b)
When proper books of accounts are maintained:
Mr. Jamal Ahmed
Income year: 2022-23 [Assessment year: 2023-24]
Computation of agricultural income
Page| 114

Income from agricultural :
Income from sale of paddy (150 x 600) 90,000
Income from sale of jute (100:x 800) 80,000
Income. from sale of rabi:crops 65,000
Income from Borga 20,000,
Lease of agricultural land 30,000
2,85,000
Less: Admissible expenses:
1. Production cost-
Cost-of seeds and fertilizer 40,000
Cultivation costs 65,000,
Transportation cost 15,000
Ordinary ‘processing cost 25,000
1;45,000
2. Land revenue paid. 7,000
4. Crop insurance premium 5,600
5. Allowable depreciation 3,000.
6. [Interest on borrowed fund 2,800
1,63,400
1,21,600
Total income 1,21,600.
Worked example 2
Mr. Sanjib Majumder‘is. a farmer who owns. agricultural land'which is used three times:a year'to produce.
‘agricultural:goods. Such cultivation is mainly 0076 10077760181 purpose; however, a very insignificant
part is consumed by him. He is an elderly‘citizen (age more than 65 years) and has reported income.from
no other sources..During the income year ended on June 30, 2023, he has reported following information
relating to. income from agriculture:
In addition to above income, he also prodiiced seasonal vegetables (beans) during Winter on the
surroundings of his agricultural land. Total production was 256 kgs and sold at the rate of Tk. 16. Out of
the total production, 16 kgs are used for self-consumption and reported Tk. 1,200 as cost of bean
production.
He also has reported Tk: 95,000 income from poultry firm and fulfills all conditions to be nof- assessable.
He has also reported Tk. 180,000 income from fisheries.
Expenses relating to agricultural. produce like paddy, potato and cereals are. as follows:
Cost of'seeds and fertilizer ‘Tk.. 36,500
Labour charge 40,000
Maintenance costs of agricultural equipment 4,000
Union parisad tax’ 5,800
Crop insurance premium. 8,200
‘Depreciation on tractor @ 20% 14,000
Page.| 115

Mr. Majumder has borrowed Tk. 50,000 from Rajshahi Krisi Unnayon Bank at.an interest rate of 12% per
annum on. 15" October 2019. Allowable depreciation for tractor as, per thé Third Schedule of the ITA,
2023 is 10%. Cost of seeds and fertilizer includes Tk. 1,500 spent-against Borga. He: maintains books. of
accounts. properly.
Solution 2:
Mr. Sanjib Mojumder
Income‘year: 2022-23,
[Assessment year: 2023-24]
Computation of agricultural income
Agricultural income :
Market price. of paddy production (215 x 700) [note-1] 150,500
Market price of potato (112 x 180) 20,160
Market price of cereals (835x115) 96,025
Market price: of seasonal vegetables (256 x16) 4,096 270,781
Income from poultry’farm 95,000
Less: exempted upto Tk.10;00,000 =. 95,000 nil
Income from fisheries Tk. 1,80,000
Less: exempted upto Tk.10,00,000 1,80,000 nil
Léss: Admissiblé expenses:
1. Production cost-
Cost of seeds and fertilizer 36,500
Labour charge 40,000
Maintenance of agricultural equipment - 4,000
80,500
2. Union parisad tax. 5,800
3. Crop insurarice premium 8,200
4. Allowable depreciation (note 2) 7,000
5. Iriterest.on borrowed fund (note-3) 4,250
6. Cost of bean production 1,200
106,950
Total 163,831
Less: éxeniption.as per 61150760016, part-1, Pata.20 200,000
Total income _ (36,169)
Notes:
arket. price of ‘the produce is. to be taken as sales; proceeds..-So: self-consumption has not been
taken into consideration, rather whole produce has been multiplied by market price to arrive sale
proceeds.
2. Allowable depreciation = (14,000/.20) x .10 =7,000
3. |
nterest on borrowed fund = (50,000. x '12%) x 8.5/12 = 4,250
4. As.agriculture is the only:source of income for Mr. Sanjib Majumder, he is. allowed to get maximum
Tk. 2,00,000 exemption as per 61050760016, part-1, Para.20 in assessing his total income..
Page | 116

5. As‘total income:of Mr.Sanjib Majumder doésn’t exceed the non-assessable limit of Tk. 3,00,000;
he will have. no tax liability.
Worked example 3
From the following particulars of income, compute the total income Mr. Jibon Karmaker for the income
year 2022-23.
1. Sale of ‘paddy: (250 maunds @ Tk. 500) Tk. 125,000
2. Sale of jute: (100 maunds @ Tk. 400) 40,000
3. Sale of rabi crops: 50,000
4. Annual rental from leasing agricultural land 20,000
5. Sale of forest timber‘and bamboo 6,000
6. Income from tea garden 30,000
7. Income from. rubber garden. 40,000
8. Income from tobacco industry 30,000
9. Income from sugar industry 50,000
10. Income from poultry’ farm 35,000
11. Income from cattle rearing 3,000
12. Income from sale of palm and date: Juice 6,000
13. Income from sale of honey 5,000
Expenses for‘cultivation are .as follows:
Rice. and ঘদ
rabicrops Jute

Cost of.seeds. and fertilizer 25,000 7,000
Labor charge. 5,000 2,000
Cost of hiring pumip machine. 3,000 1,000
Repair expense. of equipment 500: =
Transportation cost 2,000: 500
Mr. Karmaker maintains: proper books of accounts for rice. and rabi
crops, however, he maintains no books for jute.
Other expenses as incurred were as follows:
Union parisad tax 2,000
Land reveriue 1,000
Crop insurance premium 2,500
Allowable depreciation 9,000
Maintenance cost of irrigation plant Insurance premium — Tractor: 7000
He had a pump machine which was purchased at Tk. 25,000. It has: become obsolete and has been
discarded at Tk.12,000. As on ‘the. date. of discard, the written down value after charging depreciation on
the basis of prescribed rate at the ITA, 2023 amounted to Tk. 10,000.
He has taken agricultural loan of Tk.:50,000 @ 8% interest‘from Bangladesh Krishi Bank.

Page. | 117

Mr. Karmaker has’ a tractor which was purchased for Tk. 250,000 on which he has.an active insurance.
policy. During the income year, the tractor becomes out of order and he filed ‘a claim with insurance
company. After proper scrutiny, he receives Tk. 82,000 from insurance company as.coverage. However,
depreciation charged so far on the tractor as per IT Act'is Tk. 150,000.
Solution 3:
Mr. Jibon Karmaker
Income year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24
Computation of total income
Income from agricultural: Tk. Tk. Tk.
Sale of rice (250 x 600) 425,000
Sale of jute (100 x 400) 40,000
Sale of tabi crops 50,000
Annual lease réntal 20,000
Income from tea garden (30,000 ‘x 60%) 18,000
Income from rubber garden (40,000 x 60%) 24,000
Income from poultry’farm 35,000
(-) exemption (full) 35,000 -
Income from cattle rearing 3,000
Income from sale of palm and date juice 6,000
Income from sale of honey 5,000
Gain from‘sale of obsolete equipment
(Sales: - WDV.= 12,000 - 10,000) 2,000
293,000
Less: admissible expenses:
1.. Production expenses:
Cost of seeds & fertilizer 25,000
[30800178186 5,000
Cost of pump machine:hire 3,000
Repair expanses of agricultural equip. 500
Transportation cost 2,000
Production costs for rice-& rabi crops 35,500
Costs of jute production (40,000 x 60%) 24,000 95,000
2. Union parisad, Tax. 2,000
3. Land revenue 1,000
এ. ‘Crop. insurance premium 2,500
5. Allowable depreciation 9,000
6. Maintenance cost of irrigating plant 4,000
7. Insurance premium — Tractor 7,000
8. Loss from tractor (Tk. 100,000 - Tk. 82,000) 18,000
9. Interest from borrowed fund (50;000 x 8%) 4,000 47,500
___ 142,500
Income from business: 150,500
Income from tea garden (30,000 x.40%) 42,000
Income from rubber garden (40,000 x 40%) 16,000
Income from tobacco (direct 45% tax will be imposed) 30,000
Income from sugar industry 50,000 108,000
(Fully business iricome as NBR not yet segregate this income)
Page | 118

Income from other sources

Sale of forest timber and batnboo 6,000
Total income 2,64,500
Self-assessment questions

1. Define “agricultural income’ under the Income Tax Act, 2023.

2. Discuss the allowable deductions as per'section 42 and:43 of the.Act in computing the taxable:

income under the head ‘income from agriculture’.

3. How will'you compute the income.in respect of téa and rubber industries?

4. What are the different types of agricultural income? — .

5. On what categories of agricultural income, ‘taxes are imposed at a reduced rate?

Page| 119

দিকের es ap ee ১ ae QD. তিক (5 ae
শিপ ভি RSS Sy ২১২ পর সে gfe BO FE 8 ag Seg 1 -
পয এ EE ২ টি aime ae রি মে ER age pe ES
Income from business
|[(Contents
Introduction

Examination context

Topic list
' 81 | Meaning of business
থা! . ito . , আআ আআ আআ '
i 8.2 Scope of income under the head ‘income from business
. 8.3 Special area of business income:
চড়ার iy A oo. গা
84 Some specific guidelines
i 8.4 Allowable deductions
থাম! oa . on ০.০ - . po le লে ae a ক লালে আআ
. 8.5 General allowable deduction. in computing income from business |
দস্তা আআ ।
i 8.6 Special allowable deduction in computing income from business i
| 8.7 Allowable bad. debt expense ;
: 8.8 Computation of special deduction of interest or profit i
i 8.9 Special limit for allowable interest :
: 8.10 | General conditions for‘allowable- deduction
রর আর লা শল- এ 0
: 8.11 Deduction not:admissible in certain cases
: 8.12 | Computation of special business income.
: 8.13 | Capital and revenue. expenditure i
: 8.14 | Illustrations of some important concepts ; রা চু ট |
Worked examples and solutions

Page | 120

|[Introduction
Learning objectives

= — Identify income from business.

B Compute the taxable income under the head ‘income from business’.

= Identify the allowable deductions Under the head.

® Identify the expenses that are inadmissible.

দ — Identify the complexity ‘of computing income from business and profession.

® Identify the expenses admissible up to a.certain limit.

= Compute net tax liability in different:situations.

Practical significance

The head ‘Income from business’ is very important to tax authority. A significant part: of tax revenue
government collects from this head. This head also includes lot of complex issues on which clear
understanding is required to practice tax.. This chapter lays the basic foundation of corporate tax
assessment.

This chapter presents an idea of how conventional profit and loss account can: be adjusted. with
applicable tax laws. It presents the scope of income.under'the.head, admissible.expenses, inadmissible
expenses and other related issues.

Some expenses are admissible up to a certain limit. These are explained with some examples.. Other
complex issues like perquisites, balancing charge etc. are simplified with examples.

You will'find the details of the above issues in this chapter with some practical examples:

Stop. and think.

Do you realize:that the computation of taxable income-under the head ‘income’from business’ is. one of
the basic requirements for determining tax liability? Can you determine the taxable income under the
head? Can you compute net tax liability of an assessee having income under the head?

Working context

In practice, as the accountants are sometime required ‘to, support to prepare. their cliénts' tax returns,
they need to advise the clients on how to calculate the: taxable income for any income year. Before
advising, the: clients, accountants should have. thé clear concept relating to the admissible and
inadmissible expenses:so that they can deduct or add the expenses in determining the taxable income.
Syllabus links

The topics covered in this chapter are very important for computing taxable income which is required for
solving sample practical problems at this level.
[Examination context
Exam requirements

In the examination, candidates may be required to:

2 Define income from business.

দ — Identify. different scope of income under the head.

* Compute the'taxable income under the head ‘income from business.

পদ — [llustrate the income cannot be reported under the head.

দ — Identify the allowable deductions under the head.

Page.| 121

® |॥0908086 the expenses admissible up to a certain limit.
= Compute net'tax liability under the head.
Question practice.
For question practice on these topics go to the suggested answers covering this chapter and also this
manual.
Examiner's comments on how students tackle questions
Candidates have to be. prepared well for this area as this chapter consists of core concept on:computation
of income. which is vital for calculating tax liability. Clear concept and understanding of each contents of
this chapter will help candidates to resolve any problems.relating to computation-of income from business
‘and profession.
8.0 INCOME FROM BUSINESS AND PROFESSION
Section overview
> Scope of income from business.
> The gross.income may not be taxable income.
‘> There.are some allowable, inadmissible:and not permissible deductions under the head.
> Computation of income under the head. is very significance.
=> Any-amount of perquisites, entertainmentiallowance, and free sample are admissible but-up'to
a certain ceiling.
> Depreciation allowance is very important factor for determining profit.
> Revenile éxpenditure and capital expenditure is considered différently..
8.1 Meaning of business
“Business” defined in section —.2(70) as including —
০ Any trade, commerce.or manufacturing of goods;
e Undertake any risk or-endeavor in any trade, commerce or production of goods;
e The exchange of goods of services of any for profit or not for profit entity;
e Any profession:
According to Oxford Advanced Learner’s Dictionary, business means the activity ‘of making, buying,
‘selling or supplying goods or services’ for money.
8.2. Scope of income. under the head ‘income:from business’
Scope of income. under the head 70016 from business’ encompasses the following areas as per
different sections of Income: Tax Act, 2023:
(a) Any profit and gain from a business carried on or deemed to be carried on by the assessee during
‘the. income year;
(b) Income derived from any trade or professional association or other association of like nature on.
account of:spécific services: performed for its mémbers:,
(০) The fair market value of any benefit arising out of or in continuation of any person’s past, present.or
potential future business relationship whether convertible into cash or not:
(0) Any management fee incurred by any management company including Mudaraba management
company;
(e) Any amount dur to the lessor bank insurance or financial institution against the lease of any asset
owned by itself-or other;
(f) Realized gain from currency exchange.as per Third Schedule-of this:Act;
Page | 122

(0) Any income received during the income year from any discontinued business.
8.3 Special area of business income

1. Income from.special area of business income shall be computed as below:

2. If any asset used in the business of the assessee is sold in any income year:
lf sale proceeds is more than the acquisition Income from capital gain=A- B
value Income from business = B - G
If sale proceeds is not more that acquisition Income from business = A - 6
value but exceeds written down value (WDV)

ও. If in any income year the amount received as insurance, salvage. or compensation due. ‘to. the
abandonment, destruction of any asset being used by the assesses in his business, exceeds the
WDYV, the.said amount shall be included under the head ‘Income. from agriculture’ as below, namely:

If insurance, salvage or compensation Income from capital gain= A- B
value is more than the acquisition value | Income from businéss = B --C

If insurance, salvage or compensation Income:from business = A — C (if A>C)
value is not more that acquisition value Allowable deduction under ‘income
but exceeds written down value (WDV) | from business’ = C —A (if A<C)

For the purpose of above —

A= Sale proceeds of the asset or insurance, salvage or compensation value-of the asset

B = Acquisition value of the asset

C = Written down value.(WDV) of the asset.after allowing depreciation under third schedule

It should be. noted that the business in which the asset is used prior to 'the sale. shall be deemed to be

carried on by the.assessee in the income year to which the asset is sold

Further, if an asset is exported or transferred outside Bangladesh after being used in the assessee’s

business, the date of such export'or‘transfer:shall be:déemed'to'the 'the:date of.sale of the ৪9961 ৪170 the

purchase price of the asset:shall be deemed to be the sale: proceeds:

4. Where during any income:year‘an assessee,. being an exporter of garments, transfers to any person,.
‘the export quota or any part thereof allotted to. him by the Government, such portion ofthe. export
value of the garments ‘exportable against the quota so transferred as may be prescribed for this:
purpose shall be-deemed to be income of the asséssee for that income year, classifiable under'the
head “Income. from business”

5. Anyexpenditure:on account of interest.or profit payable to any person is not paid within 3 years after
‘the-end of the income year in which the deduction is:made, in the subsequent income year'the unpaid
interest or profit amount shall be treated as ‘income from business’.

Provided that if any such interest or profit (which has been treated as business inome under above

provision) is paid in any subsequent year, the.said payment shall be excluded from the computation of

income of thé assessee in the relevarit income year.

6. Ifin computing income under this “Income from. busifiess’ in any income. yéar any trading liability is
‘take:in account and—

Page.| 123

(a) if any subsequent income is received by the assessee in respect of trading liability in the said
income year, the monetary-value of that benefit shall be treated as income from business of the
assessee in the income year in which the benefit.is received;

(b) if the trading liability or any part thereof remains unpaid within 3 years:after the:end of the income
year in which. the said trading liability has been taken, ‘then the said unpaid trading liability shall
be treated as income from business of the assessee in the income year following the completion
of the said 3 yéars
Provided that if any such trading liability treated as income is. paid in any subsequent year, such
amount shall be excluded in computing the income of the assessee..

7. \faloss, credit or any expense is deducted in computing income from business in any income year
and if in any subsequent income year the-assessee réeceives:any benefit.in respect of such deducted
losss, credit or expense, the. monetary value of that benefit shall be treated:as income:from business
in the income year in'which the benefit is received.

8. In case of filing return under section 180 of ITA, 2023, any deficiency in the initial capital shown at
any time within 5 years after the year in which the return is filed shall be treated as income from
business:

9. In computing the income of a financial institution, interest or profit income on loans classified by the:
Bangladesh Bank as bad. loans of doubtful loans shall be credited as profit and loss in the income
year, or in. the income year in which they actually received, whichever is: earlier, income from
business of the financial institution shall be:includeéd.

8.4 Some-specific guidelines

In line with section 47 of ITA, 2023, some typical companies ‘should compute taxable income as per the

guidelines given in different schedules as mentioned below:

Fourth Schedule: The profits and gains from insurance business and the tax payable thereon

Fifth Schedule: The. profits and gains: from the exploration and. production of natural gas, petroleum. and

other minerals and the tax payable thereon.

Further, as per section 48 of ITA, 2023, any’ speculation business cartied on by’ any person shall be

treated as separate and distinct business from the other business of that parson.

8.5 General allowable deduction in computing income from business

According to section 49 of ITA, 2023, subject to the. provision the Act, in computing the income from

business in any income. year, following expenses shall be included in the general deduction, riamely —

(a) Expenditure.on purchase. of raw materials, inventory, goods for the purpose of business and use. in
business. and any depreciated inventory expense;

(b) Duty-taxes, municipal taxes, local taxes, land development tades or rents and Government:fees for
‘the purpose of business not'paid under ITA, 2023 or'the Gift Tax Act 1990.

(c) Rent, development and maintenance expense: payable for land or grounds used for business:

___ purpose;

(d) All such expenses, welfare expenses or remuneration which are treated under the head ‘income from

employment’;

(e) Repair and maintenance expenses;

(f) Insurance premium incurred and paid for business purpose;

(8) Cost-of electricity and other services including fuel;

(h) Goods transportation,. clearing and forwarding ‘charges;

Page | 124

(i) Sales related commission, brokerage, discount or warranty charge related to expenses;

(jy Advertising and camping expenses;

(k) Expenditure for employee training;

(!) Conference, hotel and accommodation expense of sales representatives;

(m) Conveyance.and travel expense; .

(n) Internet service, postal and telecomimunications expense;

(০) Legal, audit: and other professional services expenditure;

(6) Entertainment and hospitality related expefises;

(0) Realized foreign exchange loss as per Third Schedule;

(r) Subscription to any club or‘trade: association, including entry fees: for use facilities:

(s) Any expenses incurred in connection with travel abroad as a member of a trade delegation sponsored
by the Government:

(t) Royalty, technical fees, head office expenses;

(u) Payment to Workers, Profit Participation Fund (not exceeding 5% of'disclosed net business profit).

(v) Other expenses incurred wholly and exclusively for the business purpose.

8.6 Special allowable deduction in computing income from business

According to section 50 of ITA, 2023,

1. following expenses shall be deductible:subject'to the permissible limits and conditions .set.out'in the
Third Schedule, namely —

(a) General depreciation allowance;

(b) Initial depreciation allowance;

(c) Accelerated depreciation. allowance;

(d) Amortization allowance; and

(6) Research and development'expense.

2. 181 asset mentioned in the Third Schedule is-sold in any income year and the sale proceeds is less
than the WDV, the: difference between WDV and sale proceeds shall be: allowable: deduction, in
computing ‘income from business’.

3. Allowable bad debt expenditure under section 51 of ITA, 2023 shall be deducted from income:from
business.

4. Allowable interest expense under section 52 and 53 of ITA, 2023 shall be deducted from income
from business.

8.7 Allowable bad debt expense

According to section 51 of ITA, 2023,

1. Incase of other than bank:and financial institution bad debt expenditure shall be: allowed, if —

(a) Bad debt or part-of the bad debt is finalized as‘uncollectible and in the: books of accounts it is disclosed
as written-off:

(b) All reasonable steps are taken for recovery before writing — off;

(০) Bad debt or part.of bad debt is tréated as income. in.any iricome year.

2. In case of bank:and financial institution, bad debt‘expenditure shall be allowed if —

(a) Bad debt or part of bad debt is finalized as uncollectible by International Accounting Standards (IASs)

__ and the related bank and financial institution disclosed as written-off in its books of accounts;

(6) All réasonable steps are taken for recovery before writing — off;
(c) Bad debt or part of bad debt.is treated as income in.any income year.
Page. | 125

8.8 Computation of special deduction of interest or profit

According to section 52 of ITA, 2023,

1. Any payment of interest, or as: the case may be, payment of profit share, on any capital borrowed for
‘the purpose of business shall be treated as allowable business expenditure.

2. If itis found that any part of the borrowed money has been used for any other purpose outside the
business or any part of the assets acquired by the borrowed money has been transferred outside the
business to any toher place where the investmen is not the business of the transferor, the part of the
money or assets which is in the business purpose, interest or profit shall be allowable expense at.the
rate proportionate to the portion utilized ‘in the business purpose.

8.9 Special limit for allowable interest

According to section 53 of ITA, 2023,

1. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision in ITA, 2023, interest}expenditure shall be
approved as per procedure and limit prescribed. by'the Board in case of a resident person (other-than
bank:and financial institution) received loan from associated entity as defined under’section 233.

2. Above provision shall not.be applied in case of interest paid not exceeding Tk 1500,000.

8.10 General conditions for‘allowable deduction

According to section 54 of ITA, 2023,

1. If in.any income year any such expenditure is allowed as deduction which represents in whole or in
part an asset, no further deduction shall be allowable in respect of that asset in the same. income

2. In approving any expenditure under section 49 of ITA, 2023, the commercial. reasonableness of the
expenditure shall be considered:and following matters shall be taken into account.in considering the
commercial reasonableness, namely —

(a) Ifthe. éxpenditure is incurred for the purpose of earring income from business:

(6), If the expenditure incurred is revenue in nature; and

(c) Ifthe expenditure is reasonable inthe circumstances.

8.11 Deduction not admissible in certain cases:

According to section 55 of ITA, ‘2023, following deductions shall not be allowable in imputing income from

business, namely —
(a) Any. expenditure or payment in respect of which:the provisions of Part’7 of ITA,.2023 have not been
duly complied with;
(b) Interest, salary, coiimission. or gratuity paid by any. firm or association to. any partner of the firm. or
any member of the association;
(c) Payment of any‘commission or'discount by a company toa shareholder director;
(d) Any amount. in excess of 1,000,000: paid to an employee in respect of perquisites as defined in
section 32:
Provided that nothing shall apply in respect to the payment of wages to employees for implementing
the recommendations of Wage Board constituted by the Government, by notification in the
Government Gazette, on the. basis of Government decision.

Page | 126

(6) Exceeding 10% of the net business profit:disclosed in the financial statements in relation to the total
amount of expenses for royalty, license fee, technical service fee, technical know-how fee, technical
assistance fee or any fee of similar nature;

(00 Head office or intra-group expenditure, by whatever name called, incurred by any such company not
registered in Bangladesh exceeding 10% of net business profit disclosed in the financial statements;

(g) Amount. éxcéeding 0.5% of business turnover disclosed in ‘the: finaficial staterients in respect! of

expense related to foreign travel
Provided that. this. shall not apply if the assessee travels abroad for rendering any. service to. the
Government.
Provided further that the limit provided above shall not apply. if evidence is produced in. support of
the additional amount is commercial reasonable..

(h) Exceeding amount to the limit stated below as entertainment expenase —

a. 4% of'first 1,000,000 of assessed business income. excluding entertainment expense;

b. 2%-of remaining assessed business income excluding entertainment:expense.

(i) Distribution of free sample exceeding the following limit:

Pharmaceutical Food, cosmetics. Other
industry and toiletries: industry
Exceeding Tk. 5 crore, but 1% 0.5% 0.25%
up to Tk. 10 crore

(j) amount éxceéding 0.5% of business turnover in respect of promotional expenditure: (other than
advertising).

(k) Any such amount treated as ‘Income from employment’ of the. employee is: paid through other than
banking channel;

(0) Ifany amountwhich is'treated as ‘Income from. rent’ is paid through other than banking channel;

(m) Payment of any amount in respect of raw material exceeding Tk 500,000 paid through other than

~ banking’ channel:

(n) In case of all types of expenses than (k), (I) and (m) above if any amount exceeding Tk 50,000 is
paid though other than banking channel : _

(০) Any amount paid to any such person who is required to submit proof ‘of submission return under
clauses 25, 26; 28, 29, 36, 37, 42 and 43 of sub-section 3 of section 264 fails to collect proof of
submission return;

(0) Any expenditure in capital or personal nature;

(0) Any liability which is not specifically idéntifiable;

(r) All.expenditure not related to business activities:

(৪) Any-deépreciation and interest for Right of Use-as:per IFRS. Provided that in:case of rent development
and maintenance expense payable: for the land or premises used for business purpose:'shall be
allowable expense;

(t) Impairment less;

(u) Any amount paid ‘to unapproved fund:

(v) All unsubstantiated expenses if the accounts was not maintained in prescribed manner;

For the purpose of above.—
(i) ‘Net business profit’ means the business profit directly carried on by‘an entity, does not include profit
derived from any subsidiary, associate-:or joint-venture;

Page. | 127

(ii) ‘Promotional expense’ means business expenses claimed against the providing of goods; money or
the benefits to any person for the purpose of business, but.shall not include advertising expense.

8.12 Computation of special business income

According to section 56 of ITA, 2023,

1. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other provision of this Act, all expenditure disallowed under

section 55 (other than s) shall be treated as ‘special business income’. a রা

2. No expenditure, adjustment.of losses or carry-forward and no: allowance under Third Schedule: shall

be allowed against:any income treated as ‘special business income’ (disallowance under section 55)
or ‘spécial area of business income’ (special area of business income under section 46).

8.13 Capital and revenue expenditure.

Capital expenditure.

All expenditure incurred in acquisition of an asset of a permanent nature which is held for the purpose
of carrying on business, such as land, building, plant, furniture etc. is called capital expenditure. Such
expenditure retains a pérmanent value of the business except for the Wear-and tear which ‘the assets
undergo on account of their use. If an amount is expended onan existing asset, its value is increased.
[t.will be regarded as capital expenditure. Expenditure incurred in obtaining a license to secure an.agency’
will be a capital one though the agency might. not have become secured. Any expenditure incurred for’
the following purposes will be-capital expenditure:

(1) For acquiring fixed assets, e.g., land, building, machinery, furniture etc. held for use in'the
business. The costofa fixed assets will include all expenses incurred up tothe time the:assets
become ready for use, e.g:, legal charges, broker's: charges, freight, import duty, clearing,
carriage, cartage and erection charges;

(2) For retaining capital assets;

(3). For improvement ‘and extension of fixed assets, cost ‘of making additions to building,
machinery, plant and furniture etc. and other improvements. of assets;

(4). For increasing in any way, the profit earning capacity of a business, e.g., the cost of shifting
the business to better arid more:suitable, premises;

(5) For raising money for capital purposes, e.g:, brokerage and commission paid for procuring
loans;

(6) Cost of constructing a factory or installing machinery;

(7) Cost of equipment and apparatus;

(8) Cost of machinery, plant:and furniture;

(9) _ Expenses incurred in connection with the erection of buildings and plants;

(10). Amount.spent on the construction of reservoir;

(11) Expenditure incurred on improvements to property, as distinguished from mere repairs;

(12) Expenditure incurred in respect of reconstruction of business premises. or converting the
same from one type. to another;

(13) Price paid for the purchases: of copyright.or patent. right.

Revenue expenditure

All.expenditure incurred in buying goods for resale or converting raw materials to manufactured articles

of incidental to thé conduct and financing of the business, is treated as revenue: expenditure. Cost of

goods purchased for the business in which a person deals, sums paid as rent, salaries and wages,
repairs. etc. are instarices of revenue expenditure. Expendituré incurred for any of the following
purposes will be regarded as revenue expenditure:

Page | 128

(1) For purchasing assets with a view to re-selling them at profit.or manufacturing them in a-saleable
condition, e:g., goods, raw materials and stores;

(2) For maintaining capital assets, in. good working order, e.g., repairs and renewals of buildings;

(3) For meeting day-to-day expenses of carrying on a business, é.g., salaries, wages, rents etc.
Tests for determining an expenditure.as either capital or revenue nature
If the money comes from circulating capital, it. will be revenue expenditure; if it emanates from
fixed capital, it will be capital expenditure..
If the answer to any of the ‘following questions is in the affirmative, it is a capital expenditure,
otherwise it is revenue expenditure:

(a) Does the expenditure result in the acquisition or retention of a capital asset?

(8) Is'there an addition or improvement to'fixed assets? - .

(c) Has it in any way improved income-generating capacity’ of the: businéss?

(0) Has it been incurred to raise any capital sum for business?

The following expenses which, prima facie, aré-of.a revenue nature, become capital Under cértain
circumstances as under:

(1) Raw materials and stores when utilized in making a fixed asset;

(2) Wages and salaries when paid in connection with the installation or construction of a fixed asset.
Thus; when. a company manufactures a machine for its own use, the wages and salaries of
persons employed on the work will be capital expenditure;

(3) Carriage:and freight expenses incurred in connection with the acquisition of fixed assets;

(4) Cost of repairs incurred in putting a second-hand fixed asset into a proper operational:state;

(5) Legal charges:incurred in connection with the acquisition of fixed assets, e.g., building, machinery,
plant etc. and expenses incurred in clearing encumbrances thereon.

A particular item of expenditure may be of both capital and revenue nature, e.g., the combined
cost of repairs, renewals etc. Thé. amourit should be. apportioned after décidirig how much of
the total expenditure represents cost.of improvements or additions etc. and how much of it is in
the nature of pure repairs.

The following types of expenditure. have been held ‘to be capital expenditure:

(1) Preliminary expenses incurred for floating or acquiring a business;

(2) Expenses incurred for raising of capital:

(3) Cost of shifting business from one place to another with a. view to increasing its revénue-
earning capacity;

(4) Lump .sum payments made to retiring directors of a company in order to réstrain them. from
entering into competition with the. business of the company.

Page. | 129

8.14 Illustrations of some important concepts
Balancing charge
Balancing ‘charge is the revenue gain earned by a business at the time of ‘disposal of any building,
machinery and plant used for the purpose of business or profession. Total gain on disposal is the
difference between sale proceeds and written down value (WDV) of the asset. If the sale proceed is
higher than the original cost, it results capital gain. And balancing charge results once capital gain is
deducted from total gain. At different amount of sale proceeds:applied on samé-asset, different:concept
is exemplified below:
XYZ Company owns. an asset originally purchased for Tk. 100,000. The company‘ recently disposes
the asset when written. down value of the: asset amounts to Tk. 56,000. Assuming different sale
proceeds, the concepts are presented below:
Sale Total gain Capital gains Revenue gain (Total Revenue loss:
proceeds (Sale proceeds (Sale proceeds - | gain — Capital gains) (WDV —-Sale
- WDYV) cost) proceeds)
(a) 120,000 64,000 20,000 44,000
Compensation received from insurance company
When any'building, machineries or plant used for'the purpose of busifiess or profession is demolished,
destroyed or discarded and insurance: compensation is received, amount equal ‘to balancing charges
is reported as income from business or profession. The application is similar to balancing charge, the
only difference is that the: asset is not disposed rather destroyed and thus the amount is received from
insurance: company as compensation money.
Lét’s assume the same asset. The asset is.now destroyed and there is an active policy covering the
risk of the asset. And the company lodged claim with different amount:of compensation money received
as:shown below:
Compensation Total gain Capital gain Revenue Revenue loss
received (Gompensation (Compensation gain (Total (WDV —
received - received - cost). gain — Capital Compensation
WDY) gains) received)
(a) 130,000 74,000 30,000 44,000
Fractional income in certain cases (transfer of garments export quota, tea, rubber)
In certain cases, income from business or profession is assessed as-a certain percentage of total income.
These are:
1. 3% of the export value of the garments exportable against the export quota in case the export quota
is transferred to other (Rule. 30A)
Page | 130

2. 40% of the income derived from the.sale of tea grown and manufactured by’the seller in Bangladesh
(section 40)
3. 40% of the income. derived from the sale of rubber grown. and manufactured by the seller in
Bangladesh (section 40)
Let’s:assume that XYZ Company has income from the following sources as mentioned below:
1) The company has transferred a part.of its export quota of garments to another company that may
generate a total of Tk. 1,500,000 export value.
2) Income derived from the sale of tea grown and manufactured by the company, Tk. 500,000.
3) Income derived from the sale of rubber grown and manufactured by the company, Tk. 300,000.
Computation Income from
business
From transfer of export quota 3% of Tk. 1,500;000 45,000
From sale:of rubber 40% of Tk. 300,000 120,000:
Total income from business Tk. 365,000
Entertainment expenses:
Any amount representing entertainment expense is not allowed for deductions. For allowable
deductions under the head, thé following bases and percentages are. prescribed in Rule-65.
Income, profits and gains of the business and profession Allowable:
(Before charging such allowance) rate
On the first Tk. 10 lakh of profit 4%
On the balance / rest of the profit 2%
For example, XYZ Company reports Tk. 89,00,000 as profit for the year ended June 30, 2022 after
charging Tk. 150,000 as entertainment allowance. Compute the amount of allowable entertainment
expense.
On first'profit of Tk. 1,000,000 Tk. 40,000
On balance of Tk. (89,00,000+1,50,000-10,00;000) 80,50,000 1,61,000
On total profit Tk. 9,050,000 (before charging entertairiment expense) po 2,01,000
Thus, allowable amount.of entertainment expense is Tk. 201,000 but as the claim is lower so
entértainment will be allowed Tk. 150,000/-
Page.| 1311

Free sample distribution
Expenditure on distribution of free sample. is admissible up to the percentage as given below:
In respect of
Ceiling of turnover pharmaceutical
industries
(a). Turnover up. to Taka: 5 crore 2%
(8) Turriover‘in éxcéss of TK..5 crore but-up to TK. 10 crore 4%
(c). Turnover in excess-of Taka 10 crore 0.50%
For example, let's assume that the turnover-of XYZ pharmaceutical Company is given in the table below.
The allowable deduction for free: sample distribution would be:
Turnover Pharmaceutical industry
: Amount (Tk)
a) If turnover is Tk. 5,00,00,000 10,00,000
b) If turnover is Tk. 10,00;00,000. 2% + 1% 15,00,000
০) If turnover is Tk. '12,00,00,000 2%+1%+ 0.50% 16,00,000
Perquisites
Perquisite to any employee for any year is allowed up to Tk. 10,00,000. If actual perquisite given to an
employee exceeds, Tk. 10,00,000; ‘such amount exceeding Tk: 10,00,000 will be: disallowed. For
example, let's assume: that Mr. X enjoys the following benefits during the income year ended on 30"
June, 2022 from his employer:
1. Basic salary Tk. 12,00,000
2. House rent allowance 800,000
3. Festival bonus —equal the.two. months basic.salary 84,000
4. Leave encashment 42,000
5. Conveyance allowance — 1,55,000
6. Contribution to Recognized Provident Fund. @ 10% 50,400
7. Servants wages 20,000
8. Children educational allowance ‘50,000
9. Performance bonus 40,000
10. Bungalow utilities 25,000.
Compute the.amount of perquisites to be disallowed.
Actual perquisites received
1. House rent allowance. ‘Tk. 800,000
2. Conveyance allowance 155,000
3. Servants wages 20,000
4. Children educational allowance 50,000
‘5. Performance bonus 40;000
6. Bungalow utilities 25,000
Value of perquisites réceived 10,90,000
Allowable perquisites 10,00,000
Excess perquisites to be disallowed 90;000
Page | 132

Expenses allowed up (0:৪8 certain percentage

It is important to remember that some expenses, where there is a scope of reporting higher amount,

are. permitted but up to certain limit. Amount exceeding that limit is not allowed and thus taxable. These

expenses aré enumerated below:
Expenses ]মঙ6দ
Head Office expenses by a company not incorporated in Bangladesh | 10% of disclosed
net business profit

Royalty, technical, services fee, technical knowhow fee or technical| 10% of disclosed net

assistance. fee: business Profit

Overseas travelling expense 0.50% of turnover

Worked example 1:
State with reasons whether the following expenses are fully or partly admissible as deduction while
computing income from business or profession:

1. Stock-in-tradé was lost in, fire, amounting to Tk. 12;000 arid was: debited to Profit arid Loss
Account.

2. Amount spent ona successful suit filed against.a person for infringing trade mark of the assessee
- Tk. 10,000;

3. Interest.paid to bank Tk. 15,000 in connection with overdraft obtained for paying dividend;.

এ. Overseas traveling expense TK. 60,000; The amount of disclosed turnover and disclosed net.
profit.is TK. 40,00,000 and TK. 20,00,000 respectively;

5. Incentive bonus Tk. 300,000; The amount of disclosed turnover and ‘disclosed net profit is Tk.
40,00,000 and Tk..20,00,000 respectively;

6. Salary paid to two.employeés @ Tk..20,000 per month; one. is paid in cash and another through
bank transfer.

7. Royalty paid Tk. 2,00,000; The amount of disclosed turnover and disclosed net profit is Tk.
40,00,000 and Tk. 20,00;000 respectively;

8. Salary expense of a firm Tk. 100,000:of which Tk. 40,000 is paid to a partner‘as salary;

9,» _ Installation cost of an IPS, Tk. 50,000:

10. Penalty paid for violating income tax law Tk. 25,000.

11. Repair expense of the hited premises paid Tk. 50,000. 776 building is used both for office and
residence at an equal proportion:

12. Insurance premium. paid Tk. 25;000, of which Tk. 5,000 is the life insurance premium of the
owner.

Solution 1:

1. Loss of stock-in-trade is an admissible business loss‘as per section 49 (ka) of ITA, 2023.

2. Litigation / legal expense is an admissible expense as it is.spent for protecting business interest.
Any legal éxpense for illegal purpose. is not allowable.

3. Interest expense on overdraft.taken for business purpose: is admissible expense.

4. Overseas traveling expense is admissible up to 0.50% of the disclosed turnover, so here the
expense is admissible Tk. 20,000 (0.50% of Tk. 40,00,000) and rest of Tk. 40,000 will ৮6.
inadmissible.

Page.| 133

5. [709া1046 bonus.is admissible is admissible expense.

6. Out of total salary expense Tk. 480,000, Tk. 240,000 is admissible as it has been paid through
bank transfer and the remaining Tk..240,000 is also admissible as it within the limit of Tk. 20,000
per month. So, there is no violation of section 30(i).

7. Royalty is admissible up to 10% of disclosed net profit, so here admissible amount is Tk. 200,000
(10% of Tk. 20,00,000).

8. Out of total salary expense Tk.100,000, Tk. 60,000 19 admissible as it has beén paid to
employees: and rest of Tk. 40,000 is inadmissible as it has been paid to a partner of the
partnership firm Violating section 30(b).

9. Installation cost of an IPS not admissible, as itis a capital expenditure.

10. Not admissible as the. penalty is imposed for violation of laws.

11. Out of total repair expense. of Tk. 50,000, Tk. 25,000 is admissible which is for the portion of
office use:and the rest Tk. 25,000 is:inadmissible as half portion of the house has been used for
residence.

12. Out of total insurance premium of Tk. 25,000, Tk. 20,000 is admissible which is for the protection
of business interest and the rest of Tk. 5,000 is inadmissible as itis given for personal interest.
of the owner:.

Worked example 2:
The Profit and Loss.Account of Janani Traders owned by'Mr. Rajon Majumder forthe year énded on June
30, 2023 is-given below:
Janani Traders:
Profit and Loss:Account
For the year ended on June 30, 2023
| Debit

Salary 380,000 Gross profit. 1,950,000

Commission 70,000 Interest on securities 180,000

Rent of premises 132,000 Interest on bank deposit: 32,000

Fund embezzlement: 30,000 Recovery of bad debt 18,000

Donations 150,000 Gain on sale of furniture 27,000

Bad. débt 80,000

‘Life Insurance premium ‘50,000

Depreciation on furniture 40,000

Provision for income tax 38,000

Repair expense 26,000

License renewal fee 4;000

Penalty and fine 37,000

Bonus 80,000

Royalty: 70,000

Page | 134

Intérest on Barik,Loan 45,000
Household expenses 22,000
Net profit 953,000
2:207,000 2,207,000
Other information:
1. Salary includes Taka 87,000 paid to the owner.
2. Fund embezzlement occurred after office hour.
3. Donations: include Taka 70,000 paid to a charitable hospital, that-is:not approved by the Board
4. Life insurance premium is the: payment against the insurance policy in the owner's name.
5. Tax.depreciation amounts to Taka 30;000.
6. Furniture sold for Tk. 78,000 that was originally’ purchased for Tk. 70,000. Written down value of
the furniture on the date of sale was Tk. 51,000.
Compute the income: from business or profession of Janani Traders forthe year ended on June
30, 2022.
Solution 2:
‘Assessee: Janani Traders
Income year: 2022-23 [Assessment year: 2023-24]
Particulars Taka Taka
Income from business and profession: .
Profit.as per P/L Account. 953,000
Add: Inadmissible expenses
1. Salary [Note-1] 87,000
2. Fund émbezzlenient [Note-2] 30,000
3. Donations: [Note-3] 70,000.
4. Life insurance premium [Note-4] 50,000
5. Depreciation (to be considered later on) 40,000
6. Provision for income: tax 38,000
7. Penalty and firie 37,000
8. Household expense: 22,000
374,000
1,327,000.
Less: Depreciation (As per'tax law) 30,000
Less: Non-business income 1,297,000
1. Interest on securities 180,000
2. Interest on bank deposit 32,000
3. Capital gain on sale of furniture. [Note-7] 8,000
220,000
Taxable: income from business 1,077.000
Notes:
1. Salary paid to the owner is not,admissible expense.
2. Fund embezzlement:occurred after office hour is not‘allowable: expenditure:
3. Donation Tk. 70,000 to un- approved organization not.allowable.
4. Lifé insurance premium is inadmissible as this is personal expense.
Page. | 135

5. Royalty is admissible up to an amount equal to. 10% of the disclosed net profit i.e., 10% of Tk.
9,53;000 i.e., Tk. 95,300. Thus, actual royalty payment Tk. 70,000 is: admissible because it is lower
than admissible limit.

6. Capital gain on sale of furniture was Tk. 8,000 (Tk. 78,000 —'Tk. 70,000). This amount should be
considered as income under the head ‘Capital Gains’. Actual revenue gain'is Tk.19,000 but-shown
Tk.27,000, so Tk. 8,000 is to. be deducted to arrive real income from business or profession.

Worked example 3:
The Trading and Profit & Loss Account of Jahur and Brothers for the year ended on June 30; 2023 is
given below:
Jahur and Brothers
Trading & Profit and Loss Account
For the year ended on June 30, 2023
Debit Taka Credit Taka
Opening stock 80,000 | Sales 1,450,000
Purchases 700,000 | Closing stock 160,000
Wages 60,000
Depreciation on machinery 15,000
Power and fuel 10,000
Gross profit 745,000
1,610,000 1,610,000
Salaries 120,000 | Gross profit 745,000
Rent, rates:and taxes 18,000 | Compensation received 80,000
Annual membership fee: 40,000 | Bad-debt recovered 27,000
Legal expenses 15,000 | Interest and discount received 25,000
Underwriting commission 30,000 | Interest on commercial securities 80,000
Purchase of trademarks 80,000 | Dividend on listed company’s share 60,000
Bad debts 30,000 | Commission. 28,000
Accounting fees 40,000
Depreciation - office building 35,000
Penalties 18,000
Donation to flood relief fund 50,000
Gratuity to employees 136,000
Advance income tax 35,000
Loss on sale:of office
furniture 18,000
Dowry'paid to the daughter 70,000
Miscellaneous expense 30,000
Net profit 280,000
1,045,000 1,045,000
Page | 136

Other information:
1. Salaries include Taka 20,000 as salaries paid [0 076. owner-..
2. Recovered amount of bad debt:was previously allowed as bad debt expense.
3. Legal expense. is incurred for'filing and continuing a case against competITAr for protecting the
interest:of the. business.
‘4. Penalties were due to avoidance of tax payment at an earlier period.
5. Annual membership fee is. the fee paid to trade union for the interest of the business.
6. Compensation money is received'from insurance company against a claim lodged due to destroy’
of machinery originally purchased for Tk. 70,000 with a written down value of Tk: 50,000..
7. Tax depreciation was calculated as. follows:
a. Depreciation on machinery Taka 25,000
b. Depreciation on office building Taka 50,000
Required: Compute the income from businéss or profession .and also total ificome of Jahur and
Brothers for the:year ended on June 30, 2023.
Solution 3:
Assessee: Jahur and Brothers
Income year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24
| Particulars Tk. Tk..,
Income from business and profession:
Net profit:as per Profitsand Loss Account. 280,000
Add: Inadmissible expenses
(1) Salaries paid to owner 20,000
(2) Underwriting commission 30,000
(3) Purchase of trademarks: 80,000
(4) Penalties 18,000
(5) Advance income tax 35,000
(6) Dowry paid to the daughter 70,000
(7) Accounting Depreciation (to. be considered later on)
Oni machinery 15,000.
On office buildirig 35,000. 50,000. 303,000
583,000.
Less: Tax Depreciation allowance (As per tax law)
On machinery 25,000
On office building 50,000 75,000 _
‘508,000
Less: Non-business Income
(1) Interest on tax free commercial.securities 80,000
(2) Capital gains (Tk. 80,000 — Tk. 70,000) 10,000
(3) Dividend on X Ltd.’s share 60,000 150,000
Taxable income from business or profession 358,000. |
Page. | 137

Add: Non-business income:
Income from interest on sectrities 80,000
Interest‘on commercial.securities 10,000
Income from other sources (cash dividend) 60,000 150,000
Total income 508,000:
Worked example 4:
For the income year ended on June 30, 2023, Gaco Pharmaceutical Company reports net profit of Tk.
17,983,000..A close ‘scrutiny of its books of accounts reveals the following items:
1. Salary and allowances include perquisites of five directors as mentioned below:
Tk.405,000 Tk.475,000 Tk.580,000 Tk.625,;000 Tk.455,000
2. Amount paid to a contractor of Tk. 85,000 without deducting tax at source.
3. Profit includes Tk. 85,000:as:gain on sale of asset. The original cost of the asset was Tk: 70;000
and on the date 01586, the written down value of the asset was Tk. Tk. 50,000.
4. | Thé:company lodged a claim against the demolishing of ar asset and recovered Tk. 70,000. The
cost was Tk. 80,000, however, the written down value of the asset was Tk. 50,000..
5. | The:company has income of Tk. 420,000 from tea grown and manufactured in Bangladesh which
‘was not considered at the-:time of computing profit.
6. |The company has transferred export quota of garments to-another-company whose export value
is estimated as Tk. 800,000. No income is reported in profit and loss account.
7. Entertainment expense.charged was Tk. 450,000.
8. Finance. director received foreign travel allowance. of Tk. 500,000 which is charged agairist the
profit. He has also received ‘similar allowance in last year and it was allowed at that time.
9. চ)091796 0111099-5ও317019:0150168001 is shown-as Tk. 340,000, Reported turnover for the year is
71. 87,953,000.
10. Royalty expense charged Tk: 112,000.
11. Depreciation charged Tk. 253,000 whereas tax depreciation is Tk. 180,000.
Compute income from business or profession; considering the information given above:
Page | 138

Solution 4:
Assessee: Gaco Pharmaceutical Company
Income year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24
Income from business and profession:
Net profit:as per Profit:and Loss Account 17,983,000
Add: Inadmissible expenses
1. Excess perquisites 105,000
2. Payment to contractor without TDS 85,000:
3..C/Gain for consideration ৪0560081815 head (Tk. 85,000 — Tk...70,000) 45,000:
4. Entertainment 450,000
5. Foreign travel allowance (note-2) 500,000
6. Depreciation (to be considered later on) 253,000 1,408,000
19,391,000
Less: Depyeciation allowance (As per tax law) 180,000 |
Entertainment (note-1) _ 404,220 584,220.
18,806,780
Add: Income from tea garden (40% of Tk..420,000) 168,000
Income from transferring export quota (3% of Tk. 800,000) 240,000 408,000
Taxable Income from business or profession 49,214,780.
Notes:
1. Allowable entertainment expense is — 1,000,000 @ 4% + 18,211,000 @ 2% = 40,000 + 364,220 =
Tk. 404,220.
2. Foreign travel allowance is allowable.for once in every two years. As last year, the director received
such allowance and it was considered at that time, so nothing to be allowed this year.
3. Expense for free sample distribution. is within the allowable limit. So nothing 'to be disallowed. as. it is
within limit.
4. Royalty expense is within the limit. Thus, the whole amount is admissible.
Page. | 139

Self-assessment questions
1. The Income statement with selective notes thereon of Zian Ltd forthe year ended on June-30, 2023
is as under:
Zian Ltd.
Income statement.
For the year ended on June 30, 2023
Net sales 15,000,000
Less: Cost of goods. sold 8,800,000
Gross profit 6,200,000
Add: Gain. on sale. of building (Note 1)
Less: Administrative and selling & distribution expenses (Note. 2) 2,400,000
Net profit
P|
Other information:
1. The Cost of the Building Was Taka 8,000,000 and the amount of accumulated depréciation up to
the date of sale was Taka 2,700,000 and sold for Taka 7,500,000..
2. Administrative and selling & distribution expenses:
‘Salaries and wages Taka 1,562,000
Fines and penalties 125,000
Rents, rates & taxes 80,000
Provision for bad and doubtful debts 60,000
Legal charges 37,000
Underwriting commission 120,000
Incentive. bonus 40,000
Cost of issuing shares, 100;000
Audit fees 60,000
Overseas travelirig expense 100,000
Depreciation. 116,000
Total 2,400,000
3. Salary and wages include Taka 180,000 as payment to the owners. and Taka 520;000 as: payment
classified as perquisites.
4. The fines and penalties are charged by.a local court for involvement in illegal business transactions.
5. Legal charges have been incurred for defending a suit for breach of:a trading contract.
6. Tax'depréciation amounts to be Taka 80,000.
Compute. income from business or profession of Zian Ltd forthe year ended on June: 30, 2023.
Page | 140

Shi ee eee বর ZA
ZS [I IS MES

EE OG NOE ০ AAO ys

DP EEL ep ২ oN ৮ ৮ ৮

Capital gains
\(Contents

Introduction

Examination. context

Topic list
| 9.1 | Basicprinciples ofcapitalgain = = |
৷. 9.3 | Computation ofcapitalgain ttst—S
| 9.4 | Othermattersindetermining capital gain রর ফা ফফফফ ফা
95 | Taxexemptedcapitalgains = #8 = © 4
i 9.6 Tax rate in réspect'of'capital. gain. ;
i 9.7 Special tax rates on capital gain from sale of shares of listed companies .
| 9.8 | Apportionment of sale proceeds between original cost and subsequent improvements :
Worked examples
| Introduction

Learning objectives

দ Identify capital gain.

B Compute the:taxable’ income under the head ‘capital gain’.

= Identify the allowable deductions Under the head.

® Identify tax exempted capital gains.

দ Identify the complexity ‘of computing income from. capital gains:

® Identify special reduced tax.rate on capital gain earned by individuals.

= Compute tax liability 07 capital gains in ‘different situations.

Page.| 14]

Practical significance
The head ‘capital gain’ is very significantin terms of understanding and applications. Transfer of capital
assets:is very common in business. Thus, in what situations, transfer of capital assets will result capital
gain, what may happen if the gain is reinvested within a certain time. period, what are. the powers of
DCT regarding the. value of:declared sale. proceeds:are some important points covered in the chapter.
Capital gains tax rate is:different than the regular tax rates applicable to individuals and other assesses.
Thus, the assessment and computation of tax liability is toa greater extent different in case of capital
gain. Thése points are also:addressed with due iniportance.
The chapter, as usual, also presents: the scope of income under the head, admissible expenses,
inadmissible expenses and other related issues.
You will find the details of the above issues in this chapter with some practical example.
Stop and think
Do you realize that:the computation of taxable income under the head ‘capital gain’ is one of the basic
réquirements for.détermining tax liability? Can you determine the taxable income under the head? Can
you compute net tax liability of an assessee having income under the head?
Working context
In practice, as the accountants are sometime required ‘to support to prepare their clients‘ tax returns,
they need to.advise the-clients on how to calculate the total taxable income for any income year. Before
advising the clients, accountants should have the clear concept relating to the admissible and
inadmissible expenses so that they can deduct or'add the expenses in determining real capital gain.
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are very important for computing taxable income'which is required for
solving, sample practical problems at this level.
| Examination context
Exam requirements
In the examination, candidates may be required to:
= Define capital gain.
দ Identify different scope of income under the head.
= Compute taxable capital gain.
» [llustrate non-taxable capital gains.
* Identify the allowable deductions under the head. . a
# — |llustrate the power of the DCT if he-believes that the declared value.at'which the capital asset
is transferred is lower than fair market value.
* Compute nét'tax liability under the head.
Question practice:
For question practice on these topics go to the suggested answers covering this chapter and also this
manual.
Page | 142

Examiner's comments on how students should tackle questions
Candidates have to be. prepared well for this area as this chapter consists of core concept on
computation of income which is vital for calculating ‘tax. liability. Clear concept and understanding of
each content of this chapter will help candidates to resolve any problems relating to computation of
income from capital gain.
9.0 CAPITAL GAIN
Section overview
=> There. is no capital gain tax on transfer of personal effects and shares: of listed companies. for
individual taxpayers..
> There.is no capital. gain tax on the transfer of lanid.and buildings to a new company formed to set up
an industry.
=> Indetermining the transfer value, income tax authority may consider the fair market value. if he beliefs
‘that transfer’ value is lower than fair'market'value.
> Capital loss can only be set off against.any other capital gain during the year.
> Itistaxed @ 15 % in the case of company:
> Non-resident individuals are also.exempt from capital gain tax on gain from sale of stocks and shares
of listed companies provided they enjoy. the same benefit in their home country.
9.1 Basic principles of capital gain
Chapter’six providés that.tax shall be. payable by'an assessee. under ‘the head “capital gain” in respect
of any gain arising from the transfer (i.e. sale, exchange or relinquishment, etc.) of any capital asset.
Such gain shall be deemed to be the income of the: income year in which the salé, exchange,
relinquishment, etc. took place:
Any gain arising from transfer of a capital asset (both movable and immovable), as defined in section
2(77) of the Income Tax.Act, 2023 is chargeable to income. tax in accordance with Seventh Schedule
of the-Act which prescribe rates of income tax on capital gain.
Capital Transfer Capital Capital
asset gain gain tax:
[As per [Salé, exchange, » P
section. relinquishment] [As per [As per
[As per section Schedule]
2(93)] ,
Page.| 143

9.2 Some definitions

Capital asset
A capital gain arises only due to the transfer of capital asset. Capital asset is defined in section 2(77)
of ITA, 2023. Capital asset means —

(a) Any nature or kind of property held by the assessee;

(6), Any business or undertaking as a whole or as a unit;

(0) Any. share or'stock.
Sale or transfer price in open market
According to section 58(2) of ITA, 2023,
The sale-or transfer price in open market means the open market sale or transfer price-of an asset,
higher of A and B below, where —
A = Amount received or accrued form transfer of asset? arid
B = Fair market value of the asset on the trarisfer' date.
Acquisition cost of the asset
According to section 58(2) of ITA, 2023,

1. Acquisition cost of an asset shall be the sum of the following costs —
a. Any expense which are solely related to the transfer of ownership of the asset;

b. Purchase price of the asset; and
c. Expenditure on the development of such asset, if'any, other than expenditure allowed under.section

38; 42, 49, 50 or'64. ;

2. Incase the asset was acquired as below:
a. Under any gift, donation or bequest;

b. Succession, inheritance;

c. Under transfer of a trust; রা
0. Any distribution of capital asset through winding up-of a company;

e. By way of distribution of capital asset in case of separation of firm or AOP, HUF.

In such case the fair market value on the date of acquisition of ownership of the asset;shall be considered

as acquisition. value of the asset.

Transfer
According to section 2(93) of ITA, 2023, ‘Transfer’, in relation to a capital asset, includes the sale,
exchange or relinquishment of the asset; or‘the extinguishment of any tight therein, but does not include:
a) Any transfer of the capital asset under_a gift, bequest, will oran irrevocable trust;

b) Any distribution of the assets of a company to its.shateholders: on its liquidation; arid

০) Any distribution of capital assets on'the dissolution of a'firm or other association of persons or on the

partition of a Hindu Undivided family [section 2(66)].

9.3 Computation of capital gain

Section 58 of ITA, 2023 states that capital gain shall be computed as the difference between the sale or
transfer price of the asset in the open market:and acquisition cost of the asset.

Page | 144

9.4 Other matters. | determining capital gain

As per section 61 of ITA, 2023,

1. If the fair market value of any. asset is' more than 15% of the value disclosed by: the assessee, the
DCT, with the prior approval of Additional Commissioner of Taxes, may determine the fair market
value of the asset. . ;

2. Ifthe fait market value of any asset is more than 25% of the value disclosed by the assessee, the
DCT,.‘as per the: manner prescribed by the Board, may offer to purchase the asset at the disclosed
value.

3. Capital gian arising form the transfer of all assets of a partnership firm to a new company incorporated
under the Companies Act, 1994 shallb 6 exempted form tax if the consideration of‘the transfer of all
assets is invested in the equity of the new company.

Fair market.value is DCT will
higher than the >| determine value.
/ | consideration by more taking approval
If DCT determines / than 15% from ICT
different, value than
the, value:stated by .
the, transferor
Fair value is higher than Goverfiment may
.| the consideration by offer to buy the
‘| more:than 25% "| capital asset

lilustration-1

Mr.Jashim declared the price of a piece of larid-at'Tk. 3,000,000-on 15" July, 2023; however, the. DCT

estimates the fair value of the land to be Tk. 3,500,000 1.6. more than 15% of the declared value. He

can. with the prior approval of the. |JCT, determine ‘the. fair value at Tk. 3,500,000 and cari compute
capital gain or loss accordingly rejecting thereby Mr.Jashim’s declared value.

Further the Government may offer to buy the land when in the opinion of the DCT; the fair market value

of the said land is say, Tk..4,000,000 i.e:, atleast 25% miore than the:declared value. It is not clear whether

in this case, Government would actually buy ‘or uses the:preemption right:to determine under-declaration.
The manner to be followed in connection with the purchase of a capital asset by the Government under
section 61(2):of the Act shall be:as follows:

(1) Where the DCT has reason to believe that any immovable property is being transferred by-a person
(hereinafter referred to as the transferor) to ariothér person (person hereiriafter referred to as the
transferee) and the fair market value of ‘such property exceeds the declared value by more than
twenty-five per cent, and the considération for such transfer as agreed to between the parties. has
not been truly stated in. the: instrument of transfer with the object of facilitating the reduction or
evasion of the liability of the transferor to pay‘the tax under the Act in respect of any income. arising
from the transfer or any other taxes or duties, he may, subject to the: provisions of this rule, initiate
proceedings forthe. acquisition of such property. by the Government.

Page. | 145

(2) The DCT shall initiate proceedings for acquisition of immovable property under rule 40. by giving a
notice to that effect in the official Gazette and a copy of such notice shall also be published in the
two leading newspapers of wide. circulation where such property is located; a copy of such notice
shall also be served on the transferor, the transferee ৪170 076 person in eccupation of the property.
However, no such proceedings shall be initiated after the expiry of a period of two years from the
end of the rionth in which. the instrument of transfer in respect of such property is registered under
the Registration Act, 1908.

(3) Objection against.the acquisition of the immovable property in respect of which a notice: has been
published in the official Gazette and the newspapers maybe made in'writing by the transferor or'the
transferee to. the DCT within 60: days of the publication of the notice in the official Gazette. or
newspapers.

(4) The DCT shall fix.a date and place for the hearing of the.objections.against the acquisition and shall
give fiotice of the same to every’ person who has made such objection. However, notice shall also
be given to the transferee of such property.even if he has not:made.any. such objection.

(5) After héaring the objections, if any, aftér taking irito account all the rélevant materials on record, if
the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes is satisfied that-

(a) The fair market value of such property exceeds the consideration paid therefore by more‘than.
twenty-five per cent of such consideration, and

(b) The consideration for such transfer'as: agreed to between the parties has not been truly stated in the
instrument.of trarisferwith such object as is. referred to in clause (1); he may make. an order'for'the
acquisition of the property’ under this rule.

(6) Any person aggrieved by an. order made under rule 40(5) may prefer an appeal under the Act.to the
Appellate. Joint Commissioner of Taxes: :

(7) As soon as may be after the order-of acquisition of any immovable property has been made: under’
Rule-40(5) and after the disposal of appeal, if any, the DCT may by notice in writing, order any
person who may. be in possession of the immovable property to surrender or deliver possession
thereof to him or any other person duly authorized by him in writing in these behalf within’ 30 days of
the service of'the notice.

(8) If any person refuses or fails to comply with a notice under rule 40(7), the DCT or-any other person
duly authorized by him under that clause may take possession of the immovable 01069103870 may,
for'that purpose, requisition the services of any police officer'to assist him and it shall be the duty of
such officer to comply'with such requisition and may. usé such force as may be necessary.

(9) When the: possession of the immovable property is surrendered or delivered under rule. 4007), the
DCT or'the person duly. authorize. by. him in'that behalf:or, as the case may be, when the possession
thereof is taken under rule 40(8), the Government shall tender as consideration a sum equal to the
aggregate of the amount of the declared value for its transfer plus 10% of the said amount to the
transferor and the property shall vest absolutely in the Government free from all encumbrances.
However, nothing in rule 40(9) shall operate to discharge the transferor-or the transferee or‘any other
‘person (not being the Government) from any liability in respect of such encumbrances, -and
notwithstanding anything contained in-any other law, such liability may be. enforced against the
transferor or‘the trarisferee or such other’person by a suit'for damages.

(10) Notwithstanding anything contained in rule 40(9), if any dispute arises as to the apportionment of
the amount of consideration amongst persons claiming ‘to. be entitled ‘thereto, the. Government shall
deposit in the principal civil court of original jurisdiction the. amount required to be tendered under
rule 40(9) and refer:such dispute for decision of the court and the decision of the court thereon shall
be final.

Page | 146

9.5 Tax exempted capital gains
Some capital.gains are non-assessable and thus exempted from gain tax. These are -.
(a) Transfer of Government securities and shares of public-listed companies: SRO 196/2015
Capital gains arises from transfer.of Government securities are exempt from tax.
(b) Transfer of capital asset of a firm to a new company: section 61(3)
When capital gains arise from the-transfer of capital asset.of'a firm to a new’company registered under
the Companies Act, 1994 and the whole amount of capital gain is invested in the Equity of the said
company. by the partners of the firm, then the capital gain shall not.be charged to tax in the year of
transfer.
9.6 Tax rate in respect of capital gain
Capital gain tax is different than regular tax and is préscribed in Seventh Schedule of Income Tax Act,
2023.
Capital gains in the hands: of a. company other than the capital gain arising out of disposal of share will
be taxed :as a block of income separate from other income of the assessee company at.a flat rate of
15% regardless of the period of holding of the asset'from the date-of its: acquisition.
Ifthe asséssée is other'than a.company and the-asset is transferred before the.expiry of five years from
the date. of its acquisition, the capital gains will be taxed at the usual tax rate applicable: to the
assessee’s total income including the capital gains. If the-asset is transferred at-any time after the expiry.
of five: years from the date of its acquisition, the: capital gains will be taxed at 15%. Thus, in. short, the
tatés can be specified as below:
Capital gain arises to Tax rate
(a) company @ 15%
(b) person other than company
1) due to disposal within 5 years at regular’slab rate
ii) due to disposal ৪0615 years At 15%
9.7 Special tax rates on capital gain from sale:of shares of listed companies
As per SRO 196-AIN/IT/2015 circulated on 30/6/2015, special tax rate is applied on. capital gains. from
sale of shares by specified persons as mentioned below:
The following reduced tax rates will be applicable on the income earned from transaction of securities
(excluding government securities) listed in'the Stock Exchanges:
| Si. Nature of taxpayer’s income
(a)| Any income earned from trading of shares/securities by any Sponsor
Shareholder / Director of a Bank, Financial Institution, Merchant 5%
Bank, Insurance Company, Leasing Company, Portfolio
Management Company, Stock:Dealer or Stock Broker Company
(b)} Any income earned from trading of shares/securities by any
Shareholder [excluding the Sponsor Shareholders/Directors
mentioned in above Sl. (b)] having 10% or more: shares of the. total 5%
paid up capital of a company / companies listed at any time during the
income year:
Page.| 147

1. Ifa 97816701061 mentioned in Sl. (c) is a company or firm, then tax rate will be 10%, as 10% tax rate
is applicable for company and partnership firm.

2. Incase of transferring the shares by any sponsor shareholder / director mentioned in SI. (b), tax will
be deducted at the rate of 5% on the difference between transfer value and cost of acquisition of the
securities as. per section 53M of the ITA, 1984.

3. The.income from trading of shares of all other types of taxpayers’ excluding those. méntioned inthe.
above lists. is exempted from tax.

4. Here, the term “securities” will include any stocks, shares, mutual fund units, bonds, debentures or
other.securities of any listed company tradable in the stock exchanges of the country (excluding the
securities issued by the government).

9.8 Apportionment of sale proceeds between original cost and subsequent improvements

Since capital gain tax-differs in rates in case of assessee other than'a company depending on the length

of period the property is held by the-assessee, it is essential to assign capital gain on them separately.

Illustration

Mr. Jatin bought a building within the jurisdiction of Dhaka Municipality 8 years back for Tk. 65 million

on which he also:incurred another Tk. 35 million as improvements 4 years ago. He sold the property in

mid-June, 2020 for Tk. 180 million..

Now, sale proceeds of Tk. 180 million should be ‘apportioned between original cost and improvements

due to different capital gain ‘tax rate applicable ‘for transfer made. within 5: years and after five years.

Such apportionment is made below proportionately:

On original cost: Tk. 180 million*:65/100 = = Tk. 117 million

On improvement: Tk. 180 millidn x 35/100= Tk. 63 million

Now capital gains and tax on capital gain will be computed as below:
Original cost Improvements:
Cost 65,000,000 35,000,000
Sale proceeds 117,000,000 63,000,000
Capital gain assessed, 52,000,000 28,000,000
15%

Improvement part has been disposed of within 5 years of acquisition, and thus Tk. 28 million would be

included with the total income of the assessee. Original cost part has been held ‘for 8 years, and the tax

on it, would be taxed at15% on capital gian.

Worked examples and solutions

Worked example 1:

Mr. Ershad has récorded the ‘following transactions for the year ended on June 30, 2023. You are

required to comment..on implication of capital gain and capital gain tax, on each of the following

transactions independently.

(a) Sold.a 3-storied building for Tk..3,000,000 in Décember 2021, which was: purchased on March
2011 for Tk. 1,800,000. In January 2015, the building was:extended at a total cost:of Tk. 500,000.
The fair'value of the building in December 2021 was Tk. 3,200,000.

Page | 148

(0) Sold an agricultural land situated outside the jurisdiction of Cumilla Cantonment Board at.a total
price of Tk. 2,000,000 which was purchased 5 years back at a total price of Tk. 1,000,000.

(c) Sold a machine, purchased at.a price of Tk. 80,000 for the purpose of his business, at a price of
Tk. 150,000 at fair market value. Another Tk. 30,000 was spent to improve the machine. At the
time of'sale, the machine had accumulated depreciation amounting to Tk. 60,000.

Solution 1:

(a) Calculation of capital gains from the sale of building:

Sale proceeds or fair market value whichever is higher Tk. 3,200,000:
Less:

Cost of acquisition Tk. 1,800,000

Cost of extension 500,000 2,300,000
Capital gain Tk. 900,000:

Here, capital gain will be taxed at 15% as transfer is made after 5 years (both original cost and
extension work).

(b) Gain-on:sale of agricultural land situated outside the jurisdiction of a cantonment board was tax.
free as per section 2(15)(c). But now it is taxable with effect from 01/7/2014 as section 2(15)(c)

has: been deleted through finance act,;2014.

(c) Calculation of capital gain from the sale of machine:

Sale proceeds or fair market value'whichever is higher Tk.

Cost of acquisition Tk. 80,000

Cost of improvement 30.000 110,000

Capital gain Tk. 40,000
Worked example 2:
Mr. Ashiqur Rahman purchased an apartment in November’ 2018 for Tk. 1,600,000. He. has paid 1%
brokerage fee and:subsequently spent another Tk..500,000 for the renovation of the house.:On 1s July,
2022 he entered into an agreement to ‘sell the property to Mr. Anowar for a consideration of Tk.
‘5,000;000 and received earnest money (advance money)-of Tk.. 100,000.
As per the terms of the agreement, the balance payment should be made. within 90 days of the
agreement otherwise the earnest money will be forfeited. As Mr. Anowar could not make’the payment
within the stipulated time the amount of Tk. 100,000 was forfeited by Mr. Rahman. Subsequently on
10th June, 2021, Mr. Rahman sold the apartment to Mr. Abdur Rahman for'Tk.:5,500,000. Hé also.paid
2% brokerage fee on sale of the apartment. The-fair market value of the house on the date: of sale was
Tk. 5,200,000. Calculate taxable capital gains for the assessment year 2023-24.

Page. | 149

Solution 2:
Computation of taxable: capital gain:
Particulars Taka ‘Taka

Income under "capital gain":
Full value of consideration received against capital asset:

(Including the forfeited amount of Tk.. 100,000) 5,600,000
Fair Market Value at the time of transfer, 5,200,000
Disposal vale of the capital. asset (whichever is, higher) 5,600,000
Less -. Allowable deductions
Brokerage fee for sale (5,500;000 ১০290) 110,000
Cost of acquisition [1,600,000 + (1,600,000 ১ %)] 1,616,000
Cost of improvements of the asset 500,000 2.226.000
Capital gain 3,374,000

Worked.example 3:

Mr. Jason runs a business of his. own. He has purchased plant and machinery for the. purpose of his
business at.a cost of Tk. 10,000,000 on 1% January 2012. He incurred installation cost of Tk. 1.70;000.
He sold it-on July 15, 2023 at; Tk. 22,000,000. For this: sale, he has: to pay brokerage fee:@.2% on the
gross sales-amount received.

On June 30, 2022 he has purchased another plant and machinery at a cost of (a) Tk. 10,000,000 (b)
Tk. 12,000,000 and expressed his intention of getting roll over relief of capital gain on new plant and
machinery in writing to DCT.

He also had. Tk.'200,000 as taxable income from interest on securities and Tk. 100,000:from income from
other'sources.

Solution 3:
Assessee: Mr. Jason
Income. year: 2021-22
Assessment year: 2023-24
Income under "capital gain" :
Sale proceeds of plant and machinery 22,000,000
22,000,000
Less - Allowable deductions:
Expenditure incurred to transfer the asset
(Note.2)
. 440,000
(b) Cost of acquisition (Note 3) 10,170,000
Capital expenditure incurred forimprovement nil
of the asset 10,610 000
Page | 150

Capital gain 11,390,000
200,000

Income from financial asset 11,390,000

Capital gain (as calculated above).

Income from other-sources (given) 100,000

Total taxable income 11,690,000

Computation of tax liability:

Tax on capital gain (15% on 11,390,000) 1,708,500
‘Tax on femaihing taka 300,000 will be at.regular rate ( up to 350,000 0%) ail
Net tax. liability 1,708,500

Notes:

1. The.plant and machinery qualified as. capital asset.

2. Expenditure incurred to transfer the capital asset, Taka 440,000 (brokerage fees @ 2% of Tk.
22,000,000).

3. Cost of acquisition, Tk. 10,170,000 (cost + installation)

4. capital gain rolled over basis is not allowed as per ITA; 2023.

5. There:is no revenue 08107 35 the cost and written down value of the asset is same.

6. Here, the assessee ‘is a person other than a company and the asset is. sold after 5 years of
purchase. So, as per 7" schedule, tax rate will be at 15% flat rate-on capital :gain.

Self-assessment questions

1. Explain the terms “capital asset”, “cost of acquisition” and “fair market Value” Under the Income Tax
Act, 2023.,

2. State the capital gain exempted from payment of tax under the ITA, 2023 and SRO.

3. Mr. Hasan has purchased a machine at a total cost of Tk..500,000:on 23" April 2015 for the purpose
of his profession. In addition, he has paid Tk. 10,000 as legal fees. He has spent an additional sum
of Tk. 50,000 for improvement of the machine:

On 30 December 2021, he sold the machine at. Tk. 600,000 when the balance: of allowable

accumulated depreciation was Tk. 126,000 in. his books of:accounts. But in the opinion of DCT thé fair

market value on that date amounts to Tk. 650,000. He incurred advertisement cost, of Tk: 20,000 and

1.5% as brokerage commission on the-sale value. He has taxable iricome of Tk. 230,000 from all other

SOUIces.

Compute capital gain, total income; and specify tax rate thereon.

Page.| 151

ও সম মম eee
a Se ZEA EN QS ZA aI তু
fae ee Qo COP fig Ras
RNS ONES BEE ৯১ ৩ ig | ee সম সস
Income from other sources
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list.
' 10:1 | Special area of income from other sources :
চা] মে
i 10.2 Royalty
i 10.3 | Fees for technical service i
: 10.4 | Income from letting of factory building along with machinery
: 10.5 | Allowable deductions.
: 10.6 Inadmissible expenses
| Introduction |
Learning objectives
দ — Identify income from other sources.
s. Compute the taxable income under the head ‘income from other sources’.
» — [dentify‘the.allowable deductions under the. head..
«Identify tax exempted income under the head. —
« Introduce the complexity of computing income from other-sources.
« Explain the application of TDS and Grossing Up of income in certain cases..
® -Compute tax liability on income from other sources: in different situations.
Practical significance
The head ‘income from other'sources’ is very significant due to its importance as a residual head of
income. Income ‘that doesn't'fall under any other head comes: under the scope of this head. Thus, it is
important to know different categories of income coming under the head.
Royalty income, feés for technical services, income from letting factory building along with machineriés
are some. income coming under this head.
Tax usually deducted at sources as per law in some categories of iricome under this head. These
incomes are required to be. grossed up before reporting them in return of income.
Page | 152

The chapter, as usual, also presents, the scope of income under the head, admissible. expenses,
inadmissible expenses and other related issues.
You will find the details of the above issues in this chapter with some practical examples.
Stop and think
Do you realize that the computation of taxable. income under the head ‘income from other sources’ is
one of the basic réquirements for détermining tax liability? Can you determine the taxable income Under
the head? Can. you compute. net'tax liability of an assessee having income.under the head?
Working context
In practice, as the accountants are sometime required ‘to support to prepare their clients’ tax returns,
they need to.advise the-clients on how to calculate the total taxable income for any income year. Before
advising the clients, accountants should have the clear concept relating to the admissible and
inadmissible expenses'so that they can deduct or add the expenses in determining the taxable income.
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are very important for computing taxable income'which is required for
solving, sample practical problems at this level.
| Examination context

Exam requirements
In the examination, candidates may be required to:

দ Define income from other sources.

2 Identify different scope-of income under the head.

দ Compute the taxable income under the head.

« Identify the allowable-deductions: under the head.

2 Introduce grossing up of income in certain cases and illustrate its impact on computing taxable

income.

দ Compute net tax liability under the head.
Question practice
For question practice on. these topics go to the suggested answers covering this chapter and also this
‘Manual.
Examiner's comments on how students should tackle questions
Candidates have to be. prepared well for this area as this chapter consists of core concept on
computation of income which is vital for calculating tax liability. Clear concept and understanding of
each contents of this chapter will hélp candidates to resolve any problems relating to computation of
income from other sources.
10.0 INCOME FROM OTHER SOURCES
Section overview

> Income from other sources is the last and résidual head of income.

=> The total income may not be taxable income.

Page.| 153

> There are some admissible:and not.admissible deductions under the head.

> Royalty and fees for technical services are significant sources of income under the head..
> Onsome income under the head, tax is deducted at sources at specified rates.

=> Grossing up of income is important to report taxable income..

=> There are some admissible and inadmissible deductions under the head.

According to section 66 of ITA, 2023; following income shall be:consider as ‘Income. from other sources’:
(a) Royalty, license fee, technical know-how fee, income. from granting ‘right to use of intangible asset;
(b) Cash incentive paid by the Government:

(c) Any such income which is not classified under section 30.

10.1 Special area of income from other'sources:

According to section 67 of ITA, 2023,

1. Without prejudice. to the section. 66, in. special cases, the provision of section 67 shall apply in

computing “income from other sources’ in accordance. with the provision of chapter:eight.

2. Where any sum is found credited in the books of an assessee maintained for any income year and
the assessee offers no explanation about:the nature and source thereof, or the explanation offered is
not, in the: opinion of the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes; satisfactory, the sum so credited shall be
deeméd to be his income for that income year classifiable under the head “Income from other
sources”.

3. Where any assessee owns any asset or incurs any debt or incurs any expenditure any such
‘transaction which affect the asset.of'the assessee, in such case if (A+B+C) is grater‘than, (D+E+F) an
amount equal to (A+B+C) — (D+E+F) shall be included as income of the assessee under the head
‘Income from other sources’. Where —:

A= Increase in net asset:

B = Actual cost incurred:

C = Other expenditure from, fund other than A and B above;
D = Gross assessed income;

E. = Assessed tax exempted income;

F = Other-acceptable receipts of fund other-than D. and E

4. Where any assets, not being stock-in-trade or financial asset, are purchased by an assessee from
any person and the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes has reason’ to believe that the price paid by the
assessee is less than the fair market value thereof, the difference between the price so paid and the
fair market value thereof, the difference: between the price so paid and the fair market value shall be
deeméd to be income of the assessee classifiable under the. head “Income from other sources”.

5. Where any amount is received by’an assessee. during any income year by'way of goodwill money or
receipt in the: nature of compensation or damages for cancellation or termination of contracts and
licences bythe. Government or any person, such amount-shall be deemed ‘to be the income of such
assessee for that income year classifiable under the head “Income from other:sources’.

6. Where any. lump-sum amount is received or receivable: by an assessee during any incorie year on
account of salami or premia receipts by virtue of any lease, such amount shall be deemed to be
income. of the assessee of the income year in which it is recéived and classifiable. under the head
“Income from -other:sources”.

7. Where any payment made for acquiring any asset or constitutes any’ asset and tax has not been
deducted therefrom in accordance with Part 7, such payment shall be deemed to be the income of
the person responsible for making the payment tinder this Ordinancé.and classifiable under the head
“Income from other source” in the income year in which:the payment was. made.

8. Where any benefit or advantage, whether convertible into money or not, is derived by an assessee
during any income year on account of cancellation of indebtedness, the money value of such
Page | 154

advantage or benefit shall be deemed to be his income for that income year classifiable under the
head “Income from other sources’.
Provided that‘above provision shall not apply in the following cases:

(a) Waiver of loan or interest to nattiral pérsons grarited by any financial institution registered under the

_— Scheduled Bank or Financial Institution Act, 1993; :

(b) Benefit not exceeding Tk 1,000,000 on account'of any margin loan or waiver of interest arising thereon

_ by a registered merchant banker and portfolio manager or stock broker in light of the Bangladesh
Securities and Exchange Commission, Act, 1993 orthe rules made thereunder against an individual
assessee investment in any'securities traded on the stock exchange..

9. Where any benefit or advantage, whether convertible into money or not, is derived by an assessee
during any income year on account of cancellation of indebtedness, the money value: of ‘such
advantage or benefit shall be deemed to be his inconie for ‘that income year classifiable ‘Under the
head “Income from other sources”.

10. Where a company, not listed with any stock-exchange, receives paid up capital from any shareholder
during any income year in any ‘other mode excepting by crossed cheque or bank transfer, the amount
so received as paid up capital shall be deemed to be the income of:such company for that income
year and be classifiable under the head "Income from other sources".

Provided that this provision shall not apply if any asset or service other than cash are received as
paid-up capital in accordance with ‘the Companies Act, 1994.

11.Where any company assessee borrows any amount form any other person other than through
banking channel, such amount shall be deemed to. be income of the assessee in: the income year'in
which the loan was received and it-shall be treated as ‘Income from other sources’.

Provided that where such loan or any part thereof is repaid in any.subsequent year, the amount so
repaid shall be excluded from the income in the said income-year.

12. Where an asséssee, being a company, purchases directly 0701 hire one or more motor car or jeep
and value of any motor car or jeep exceeds ten percent.of its paid up capital together with reserve
and accumulated profit], then fifty percent of the amount:that exceeds.such ‘ten percent of the paid up
capital together with reserve and accumulated profit] shall be deemed to be: the. income: of such
assessee for that income year classifiable under the head. "Income from other-sources”.

13. Where any individual assessee receives any advance, loan, donation or any other form of deposit.
exceeding Tk 500,000 from any. other person other‘than crossed chéck or bank transfer, the. amount
so received shall be:treated as income: from other source.

Provided that-above provision shall not apply in following cases —

(a) If such amount is received from spouse, parent or child and the same is withdrawn from the payer's
bank account

(b) Any deposit received by bank, financial institution and any organizations registered with the NGO

Affairs. Bureau or Microcredit Regulatory Authority.

14. Where an assessee, not being an assessee engaged in real estate business during any income year,
purchases on credit any material for the purpose of construction of building or house: property or its
unit and fails:‘to pay the sum or any part thereof representing the liability in respect of such purchase,
‘the sum or any’ part thereof, which has not been paid within two years from the end ofthe income
year in which the purchase was made, shall be deemed to be the income of the assessee for the
income year immediately following the expiry:of'the:said two years:and be classifiable under the head
“Income from other sources’.

15. Where an assesseée files:an amended return Under'section 175,.180 of 212 and shows in the amended
return any'such income which is exempted or subject to a reduced tax rate, amount equal to-A-B shall
৮6 treated as income from other sources, where —

Page.| 155

A = Amount shown in the revised or corrected return which is tax exempted or.subject to reduced tax
rate:
B= Income shown in original return
Provided that above provision shall not apply in case where the banking medium is attached and
appropriate evidence is produced.
10.2 Royalty
As per'séction.2 (79).of ITA,.2023,.royalty means:consideration (including any lump sum consideration
but ‘excluding‘any-consideration which is:classifiable as:income of the recipient under the head “capital
gains"):for -

(a), transfer of all or any rights, including the granting of a license in respect of a patent, invention, model,
design, secret process or‘formuld, or‘tradé mark or'similar property;

(b) the imparting of any information concerning the working of, or'the use.of, a patent, invention, model,
design, secret process or formula, or'trade mark or:similar property;

(0) the use. of any patent, invention, model, design; secret process or formula, or trade mark or similar
property;

(0) the imparting of any information concerning technical, industrial, commercial, or'scientific knowledge,
experience or skill;

(6) the transfer of all or any rights, including granting of a license, in respect of any copyright, literary,
artistic:or scientific work, including films or video'tapes for use in connection with television or tapes
for use in connection with radio broadcasting, but not including consideration for sale, distribution or
exhibition of cinematograph films;

(f) the rendering of any services in connection with any of the aforesaid activities

Tax deducted at sources on royalty income

If the royalty is paid by the government or any. other authority, corporation or body, company (including
banking and insurance company), or any co-operative bank or any registered NGO, 10% or 12%
(depending on the base amount) tax will be deducted at source under section 91 and such amount as
deducted will be corisidered as-final payment of tax liabilityas persection 163 (minimum tax).

Thus, grossing up is required if royalty income is received after TDS.

Illustration

Lét’s assume. that Mr. Bhowmik' has. received a net amount of Tk. 90,000 as royalty income from the

government during the income year 2021-22. He has taken.a total of 18 months to complete the work.

Thus, royalty income may‘ be allocated between this year and the immediately’ preceding year after

grossing up as follows:

Grossed Up Income: Tk. 90,000/1-0.1 = Tk: 100,000 This income

will be allocated as: follows:

Income. year 2020-21: Tk. 50,000

Income’ year 2021-22: Tk. 50,000

10.3 Fees for technical services

According to section 2(30) of ITA, 2023, fees for technical services means any consideration (including

any lump sum consideration) for rendering of any managerial, technical or consultancy services _

(including the provision. of services of technical or other pérsonnel) but:does not include consideration
Page | 156

for‘any construction, assembly, mining or like project undertaken by the recipient, or consideration
which would be income of the recipient classifiable under the head:salaries.

Tax deducted at sources on fees for technical services

If the fees for professional or technical services is paid by the:specified persons as mentioned at-section
90. and SRO 206/2023, 10% or 12% tax to be deducted at source based on the base amount under
section 52AA. However, the rate would be 50% higher if the recipient.does not have any TIN. Grossing
‘up is required to report gross income.

Illustration:

[605 assume that'Soft'Tech Solutions received Tk. 90,000 as techinical fee from BRTA during the year.
As the income was generated from a government.authority, tax has been deducted at.source @ 10%
(assuming they have TIN) and 0709 the gross income to. be repoted by Soft Tech Solutions would be
Tk. 100,000 (Tk. 90,000/1-0.1).

10.4. Income from letting of factory building along with machinery

Income from letting of machinery, plant or furniture belonging to the assessee and also building
inseparable from ‘the mentioned assets is'taxable as income from other sources
10.5:Allowable-deductions

As per section 68 of ITA, 2023,

1. Subject to the provisions of ITA, 2023, in computing the:income of a person. under the head
‘Income.from other sources’ in any income year, such expenditure incurred by such person solely
for the purpose of earning the relevant income, is not:a capital or personal expenditure, shall be
treated as allowable experise.

2. Except sub-section 5 and 6 of section 67, no expenditure shall be: allowed in computing income
under any. other sub-section of section 67.

3. (0 allowing expenditure under 1 above, the reasonableness of such expenditure shall be
considered..

10.6 Inadmissible deductions
As per section 69, of ITA, 2023:

1. Expenditure allowed in whole or in part against.any asset under this chapter in any income year
shall not be.allowed agairist the same assét..

2. The: provision mentioned in section 55 relating to limitation of authorization of expenditure shall
apply'to.such Case in this. chapter.

Worked example 1
Mr. Abdur Rahman has reported the following income classifiable under the head ‘Income from
Other Sources for the income year ended, on June 30, 2023. Compute total income of Mr. Rahman.
(1) Dividend from a Private Limited Company 9,000
(2) Interest on Fixed Deposit 5,400

Page. | 157

(3) Interest on Savings Certificate. 18,000
(4) Interest on Post Office Savings Bank account 1,800
(5) Remuneration for exam script evaluation and invigilation 1,000
(6) Prize bond lottery 25,000
(7) Income-from sale-of fish of pond 1,000.
(8) Sale-of‘forest trée and bambdo 1,500
(9) Income.from copyright 4,000
(10) Horicrarium as director 10,000
(11) Gift from marriage. anniversary 5,000
(12) Income:from license. 2,000
During the year he has purchased jewellery of Tk. 125,000 the source of which has, not been explained
to the DCT. During the year he has paid Tk. 200 as license renewal fee and Tk. 800 as interest on loan
taken to purchase the-shares of private limited company.
Solution 1
Assessee: Mr. Abdur Rahman
Income year: 2022-23
[Assessment year: 2023-24]
Computation of total income
Income from financial asset :
1. Dividend from Pvt. Ltd. Co. (9,000/1-0.1). 10,000
2. Interest on fixed deposits (5,400/1-0.1) 6,000
3. Interest-on savings certificate (18,000/1-0.1) [final u/s 163] 20,000
4. Interest.on Post Office Savings Bank, (1,,800/1-0.1) 2,000 38,000
Léss: Interest on loan for purchase:share: (800)
37,200
Income from other sources:
Remuneration for exam script evaluation 1,000
Prize bond lottery 25,000
Income from sale of fish of pond 1,000
Sale of forest: tree and bamboo 1,500
Income from copyright 4,000
Honorarium as director 10,000
Income from license 2,000
Unexplained investment at jewellery 125,000 169,500
206,700 _
Less: Allowable deductions (license reneal fee) ; (200) |
206,500
Notes:
1. Assuming copyright has been received from an individual, where:no TDS is applicable.
2. Income from marriage: anniversary is. a-gift:not income.
Page | 158

Worked example 2
Mr. Joarder Hossain has reported the following incomes for the income year 2022-23 classifiable under
the head ‘income from other sources’. Compute taxable income of Mr: Hossain.
1. Dividend from ICB Mutual Fund (gross.amount) 30,000
2. Profit.on Islami Bank. Mudaraba Savings Scheme 2,700,
3. Interest on savings certificate (gross) 30,000
4. Income from royalty of a book (time of completion — 10 months) 2,000
5. Prize of winning crosswords (no tax was, deducted) 2,000
6. Income from letting out household machineries, 1,000
7. Sale of forest'timber 1,500.
8. Income from a newspaper for column writing 5,000
9. Income from unused leased land 2,000
10. Honorarium for attending a symposium 30,000
11. Income from private tuition ina Coaching Center 10,000
12. Royalty income from a publisher 1,800
During the year he spent Tk: 200,000 on a party in Hotel Radisson, the source of expenditure remained
unexplained to the DCT.. He has also visited Singapore incurring a total cost of Tk. 100,000 and
purchased a Diamond set of Tk. 200,000 for his wife for which the source of the money was not
‘satisfactory to the DCT. During the year he has paid Tk..2,000:as.commission for collecting the dividend
and Tk. 8,000 as interest on loan taken to purchase ICB mutual fund..
Solution 2:
Assessee: Mr. Joarder Hossain
Income ‘year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24
Computation of total income
Income from financial asset: Tk. Tk.
1. Dividend from ICB Mutual Fund 30,000
2..Profit:on Islami Bank Scheme (2,700/1-0.1) 3,000
3. Interest 6n savings certificate [firial tax-SRO 253/2023] 30,000 63.000
Less: Allowable deductions: .
Commission for collecting dividend 2,000.
lnterest on loan 8,000 10,000
53,000
Income from other sources:
4. Income from royalty of a book. 2,000
5.Prize of winning crosswords 2,000
6..Income from letting out: household machineries 1,000
7..Sale of forest timber 1,500
8. Income from newspaper'column writing 5,000
Page.| 159

9. Income from. unused leased land. 2,000
10..Honorarium for'attending a symposium 30,000
11.-Income’from private tuition in a coaching center 10,000
12. Royalty income from publisher (1,800/1-0.1) 2,000
13..Unexplained investments:
Party in hotel 200,000
Travel to Singapore. 100,000
Purchase of diamond jewellery 200,000 ‘555,500
608,500
What. is meant by “dividend” under the Income Tax, Act, 20237
1. What are the.items assessable as “income from other sources” under the Act?
2. Mr. Joynal Akarid has earned the following incomes for the year 2022-23.
Dividend from preference shares of a Public Limited Company 45,000
Dividend from ICB: Mutual Fund 18,000
Income. from underwriting shares ofa Company 30,000
Income from mooring terminal 40,000
Interest on Savings Bank, Deposit. 27,000
Honorarium received as.a director to be.a member of the Board 10,000
Prize of winning Red Crescent lottery 36,000
Income from betting/housie. 48,000
Interest on loan given to a friend 15,000
Income from consultancy work, not.related to his profession 40,000
Income from participating in a training program 20,000
Income.from birthday party 50,000
Income. from royalty of a book [which took two years to write the book] 90,000
During the year he spent Tk. 200,000 to purchase a piece of land, Tk. 90,000 to purchase a motorcycle
and the explanation given regarding the source of expenditure was unsatisfactory to the DCT. Through
investigation, the DCT has also identified an FDR of Tk. 500,000 in a local bank, source. of which has
also. remained explained.
He has also visited India incurring a total cost of Tk. 100,000 and purchased a Diamond set for Tk.
100,000 for his wife for which the source of the money‘was also unexplained. During the year he has
paid Tk. 1,500 as commission for collecting the dividend. His other'expenditures during the year are as
follows:
Purchase of books and magazine 15,000
Donation to President's, Relief Fund 30,000
Contribution to a deposit pension scheme 80,000
Purchase of a cow for Eid ul Azha 15,000
Purchase of a Laptop 130,000
Purchase of:shares from secondary market 200,000
Compute total iricome aid 'tax'liability' of Mr. Joynal Akand fot the assessment year 2023-24.
Page | 160

Chapter 11

Depreciation and Amortization
|[Contents

Introduction

Examination context

Topic list
| 11.1 | Basics ofdepreciation allowances == = © |
| 11.2; Depreciation allowance for different heads:of income
| 11.3 | Depreciation allowance on assets used for agricultural purpose |
| 11.4 | Depreciation allowance on assets used in business or profession Od
115) Determination of purchase price ofanasset গা ্ রর াাো।্++।।
| 11.6 | Types of depreciation allowance. ।
i 11.7 | Normal depreciation allowance ;
| 11.8 | Initial depreciation allowance
i 11.9 ! Accelerated depreciation allowance ;
৷ 11.10] Arrangements relating to profit or loss and sale or transfer of asset
বাবা Amortization ররর |
| 11.12} Carry-forward of depreciation allowance

Worked examples
|| Introduction

Learning objectives

দ Explain depreciation allowance.

= Compute depreciation allowance,

" Define balancing charge.and capital gain.

* Identify different types of depreciation allowances.

« Differentiate accounting depreciation and tax depreciation.

দ Identify different:rates of accelerated depreciation for different:assets.

Page.| 161

দ Define written down value and its application at acquisition and disposal of assets.

দ Explaingain and losses of assets in disposal.
Practical significance
Depreciation allowance is very important in computing income from. business ‘and profession. It is an
allowable deduction in computing income-from -agriculture. and income from business and profession.
Thus, computing depreciation and understanding its implication is very significant.
Accounting depreciation and tax depreciation may not 6 076: same. If it is not-same then it generates.
deferred taxation. And it is very important for professional accountants to practice deferred taxation.
This chapter presents. different types of depreciation allowances, investment. allowance and other
rélated ‘topics.

It also presents a definition of written down value with the application of gain and loss on disposal of
assets. It also preserits different exceptions, to. the common rule.
You will find the details of the above issues in this chapter with some practical example.
Stop and think
Do you realize that the computation of depreciation allowance is one of the. important issues for
détermining tax liability? Can you determine ‘thé taxable ificome under the: héads ‘income from
agriculture’ and ‘income:from business and profession’ after allowing tax depreciation. allowance?
Working context

In practice, as the accountants are sometime required ‘to support to prepare their clients’ tax returns,
they need to advise the:-clients on how to calculate the total taxable income for any income year. Before
advising the clients, accountants should have the clear concept relating to the admissible :and
inadmissible expenses:so that they can deduct or add the expenses in determining the taxable income.
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are very important for computing taxable income which is required for
‘solving sample practical problems at this level.

[Examination context

Exam requirements
In the examination, candidates may be required to:

« Define depreciation. allowance.

দ Compare depreciation allowance and investment allowance.

দ Define written down value, balancing charge, industrial undertaking and capital gain.

2 Presents different rates of depreciation for different types of assets.

দ Explain rates of depreciation for plant, machinery, ships and other exceptional assets.

« Understanding the difference between accounting depreciation and tax depreciation.

দ Define written down:value and its application at-acquisition and disposal of assets.

দ Explain gain and loss of‘assets in disposal.

Page | 162

Question practice.
For question practice on these topics go to the suggested answers covering this chapter and also this
manual.

Examiner's comments on how students should tackle questions
Candidates. have to be: prepared well for this. atea as this. chapter consists of coré concept on
computation of income which is vital for calculating tax liability. Clear concept and understanding of
each contents of this chapter will help candidates to resolve :any: problems relating to computation of
income under the heads ‘income from agriculture’ and ‘income from business or profession’.

11.0 DEPRECIATION ALLOWANCE
Section overview
‘> Depreciation is allowed on cost but investment allowance is over and above. cost and depreciation

_ allowance. -
“> Any Government subsidy or:any grant‘from ariy authority received 61076. purchase is to be deducted

> Sale value of motor car costing more than Tk. 30 lakhs is to be scaled down in proportion to Tk. 25

lakhs limit and the same with assets used partly for business or profession and partly for private
purpose of the assessée.

=> Full depreciation is allowed in the year of purchase’ and none is allowed in the year of disposal of

asset.

> Sale value exceeding original cost is capital gain and should be taxed :accordingly.
> Depreciation is calculated on reducing balance method (WDY) on all assets other than accelerated

depreciation or on ships and vessel where cost is used.

> Balancing charge is the revenue gain and should be taxed separately.
“> Accounting depreciation and tax depreciation are different and it creates deferred taxes.
11.1 Basics of depreciation allowances
Besides various expenditure allowed under section 50 in arriving at the profit or loss on business. or
profession in an income year, allowances ‘are also given for depreciation of capital assets. within
‘prescribed rules and at' prescribed rates..
Normally accountants. charge depreciation on fixed assets other than lands in calculating profit or loss
of busifess or profession periodically: This is a normal wear ‘and tear of fixed asset caused by Use,
defluxion of time or obsolescence. The rates and method of depreciation depend on the particular
accounting policy followed by‘the assessee.

In calculating accounting depreciation, accountants should not consider what'tax authorities allow and
tax authorities also do not consider accounting depreciation in computing depreciation allowed under
tax laws. It may be'that accountant.has not charged any depreciation on fixed assets or charged whole
of a particular fixed asset in:a year, but to the tax man, it is immaterial since he would add back
accounting depreciation and deduct tax depreciation in his assessment process.

Some basic:rules. or concepts. used in the calculation and granting of depreciation allowances are stated
below:

(i) 1013 allowed on fixed assets other than. land i.e., buildings, plant:and machinery, furniture and

fittings, equipment etc.
Page.| 163

(ii) Assets must be used in the relevant income ১০817) business or profession. It may be used for the
whole year-or for just one day in the year. The allowance 15 given for the whole year without time
apportionment. However, it would be. on, proportionate basis, when assets. or some of these are
‘used for private: purpose and business purpose.

(iii) Ownership of the assets must be.with the concerned assessee in the income year. This condition
overrides prima facie-that of 096 when in'the case.of operating lease, or any:other. arrangement of
hire purchase purpose, the lessor retains the ownership. He is thus allowed full tax depreciation
though the assets have been used by the assessee.

(iv) It is obligatory on the part of the assessee to furnish the prescribed particulars. in respect of
depreciation claim (Rule 41). lf the prescribed particulars are not furnished, the DCT may ‘even
refuse to grant any allowance. for depreciation. However, where the particulars furnished are
incomplete of inacctrate, he cannot décline to grant allowance where he should call for further

__ information to complete his own depreciation allowance.

(v) Aggregate depreciation allowed ‘shall not exceed cost and the law deals with the subject of cost
elsewhere.

(vi) No. depreciation is allowed in the:year'the.asset is sold, discarded or demolished even when it was
used for major or most part of the year. However, balancing allowances is allowed. in that year
when WDV of the asset is. greater than the. proceeds:

(vii). Third Schedule prescribes different rates of depreciation allowances for different classes of assets..
On ocean going ships and vessels the rate of depreciation is based on actual cost and accelerated
depreciation on plant.and machinery is also based on cost not WD\, in all other cases, it is: based
on written down value (WDV) of the asset.

(viii) Cost of motor vehicle used in the business or profession is restricted up to Tk. 30 Lakhs for the
purpose of depreciation allowance calculation.

(ix) No depreciation is allowed on assets before the commencement of business i.e., commercial
production.

(x) While. acquiring the :asset, the assessee receives any capital grant or Government subsidy or any
assistance from any other authority or person such amount.shall be excluded from the: acquisition
cost for the calculation of depreciation allowance.

(xi) Fluctuation in the foreign exchange rate is given effect.to determine the cost base of any asset
acquired with money borrowed and payable in foreign currency.

(xii) Dépreciation is not treated as an expense unlike ‘the matching of cost with revenue by’ the
accountants. However, it is given as a specific case for the diminution in capital assets used in
business or profession. Since, it is not treated as a cost. by the ‘tax people, tax’ profit or loss is
calculated first without having regard to depreciation allowance.

Iftthere.is any profit, depreciation is set off against that. If not or if insufficient'to absorb the whole,
the balance is:and can be carried forward indefinitely as unabsorbed depreciation. But.in case of
loss, it can be.carried forward only for-six years and when cannot be set off within that, is regarded
a capital loss. This facility of carry forward of unabsorbed depreciation is extended to all tax
holiday or exempted enterprises when however, they cannot carry forward their business losses
beyond the holiday or exempt period.

Page | 164

11.2 Depreciation allowance for different heads of income

Income Tax Act, 2023 prescribes depreciation allowances for fixed assets used in different heads of

‘income.as: follows:

a) Agricultural income

b) Income from business of profession

11.3 Depreciation allowance on assets used for agricultural purpose

Depreciation allowances on fixed assets used for agricultural purposes are allowed at prescribed rates

as:given in Third Schedule. The schedule is, produced below:

Third Schedule
[Para 1]
Sl. | Capital asset Rate of |
No. depreciation (%)
1) | A building or structure constructed by brick; concrete; steel or similar 5
material

House constructed by tin, bamboo or similar materials
Irrigation Works, channels, pipes
Agricultural instruments made by wood or bamboo
Weight machine
Tractors, oil engines and light machinery
Truck, delivery van, other motor vehicle
Piper pumping equipment
_—N
Any such common instrument, tools, plant and other property

11.4. Depreciation allowance on assets used in business

According to para 2 of Third Schedule, Part 1,

1. Depreciation allowance for the relevantincome.year on any asset Used by an assessee and. owned
by him for business purpose shall be granted on: the basis, rates and limitation, qualification and
conditions set out in part 1.of Third Schedule.

2. Above depreciation allowance normal depreciation ‘allowance and initial depreciation allowance
for the: relevant income year used by the assessee for business purpose ‘shall be on the
depreciated value of the said asset subject to basis, rate, limitation, qualification, and condition
presceibed in Part 1 of Third Schedule. = ;

3. Where the asset'was not Used fully in the business of an aSséssée, depreciation allowance shall
be: allowed proportionately.

Page.| 165

4. Depreciation ৪1104/81709/5181| not be allowed on any asset unless the return of the assessee reflects
a claim thatthe asset is used for business purpose.

5. Where the asset.is not fully used for business. purpose, in computing the depreciated value of the
asset (WDY), the asset shall be deemed to have been fully used for business purpose.

6. The total deduction allowed against any asset shall not exceed the purchase price of said asset. _

7. Depreciation of asset owned by a particular leasing company and léased to any other person shall

__ be-deductible only against the lease rental income arising from such lease. রর

8. No:allowance shall be allowed to the lessor in respect. of any such machinery, plant, vehicle or
furniture:which has been given to any lessee on finance lease.

9. Noallowance shall be admissible under ‘this: part if —

a. Information or documents as prescribed by the Board or required by DCT was not submitted
at'the time of filing return;
b. Such assets’was not used in the relevantiincome year.

10. For the purpose of this Part 1 of Third Schedule, ‘specified leasing company’ means. any leasing

company, banking company, or-any financial instigiution which is engaged in leasing business.
11.5: Determination of purchase price of an asset
According to Para‘3 of Part 1 of Third Schedule,

1. The purchase price of any motor vehicle shall be considered not more than Tk 3,000,000 if said
depreciation allowancé is allowable for any passenger motro vehicle other‘than a bus or minibus
used for the transportation of students, teacher or employee. of the assessee.,

2. In computing the purchase price of any asset, the value of any allowance, subsidy, rebate, or
commission and assistance. (other than. interest-bearing or interest fee loan) received by the
assessee:'from the Government or any authority or person shall be excluded.

3. Where the assessee acquires any used asset (other than motor vehicle), the acquisition cost of
the said asset’shall not exceed its fair market value.

এ. Where the acquisition of an asset involves foreign currency loan or foreign currency engagement,
the acquisition cost of said asset shall be computed after making the following adjustments, namely

a. Adding exchange rate fluctuation loss or exchange rate hedging expense;

b. Deducting the exchange rate fluctuation gain.

11.6 Types of depreciation allowance
As per Third Schedule of ITA, 2023, depreciation allowances may be classified as under:
Types of allowances
Para.4, Third Schedule | Normal. depreciation allowance
Para.5, Third Schedule Initial depreciation ‘allowance
Para 6, Third Schedule | Accelerated depreciation allowance on machinery and
plant
11.7Normal depreciation allowance
As per para.4 of Part 1, Third: Schedule, normal depreciation allowance is allowed at the following rates:
Rate ( % of
SL. er the written
No. Classification of assets down
value)
Page | 166

5 Machinery, plant and equipment (unless: otherwise specified in this 10
রাঃ এ ০ oer |
ও | Oceangoingships
মামা মং মাারারারররেরলেলমমমমেেরেররা দায়রা
| __}) Old at the time of purchase 00686 ৪86 ভ-
| (i)Notmorethan 0years 0]
|i) Morethan yeas 20ঁঁ]

parts
| 8 | Battery operated appliances and rechargeable batteries । ও6 |
/ 9 | Equipment used for production and display of audio visual products ‘| 20.
(46 াপযগলণীচগণছ। ৫ ঁঁঁঁ
|__|) Below groundinstallation 00]
) Above ground installatins, thatis:to say, portable.boilers, drilling tools, well- 25
রায় eee রর
11.8 Initial depreciation allowance
According to para 5 of part 1 of Third Schedule, initial depreciation shall be allowed in respect of the
income year in which the asset is:first used by an assessee for his’ business purpose or in the: income
year in which commercial production is first stated, whichever‘occurs later.
Rate of initial depreciation shall be as below:
(b) In the:case of machinery or plant other than ships or 25%
ছা গগগমম্বনমআা মম
Notes:
(1) Initial depreciation allowance will not be applicable in case of —
(a) any motor vehicle not plying গো 016, and
(b) any machinery or plant which has: previously been used in, Bangladesh.
Page. | 167

11.9 Accelerated depreciation allowance
According to para 6 of part 1 of Third Schedule,.

1. Wheré machinery or any asset covered by the: éstablishment is used in an industrial uridertaking
situated in Bangladesh, accelerated depreciation allowance shall be allowed at the rate. specified
under para 6 subject'to the limits.and conditions set out in part 1 of Third schedule.

2. Accelerated depreciation allowance:shall be allowed up.to 3 years from the year of commencement
of commercial production. of the. industrial undertaking.

3. Accelerated depreciation shall be calculated on the purchase price of the asset concerned at the
rate specified in the below table:

SL Year of commencement of commercial Rate of accelerated
no operateion depreciation

4. Accelerate depreciation allowance shall be allowed subject. to following conditions, limits and
qualification, namely —

a. The'relevant asset is owned by the industrial undertaking and has not previously been used in
Bangladesh;
b. Ownership and management of industrial undertaking —

1. Managed by by law’for’the time. being in force or by body corporate established under the
law having its head office in Bangladesh;

ii. Carried on by a. company as defined in the.Companies Act, 1994 having its:registered office
in Bangladesh, and having an authorized and paid-up capital of at lease TK 2,000,000: on
the. date: of commencement of commercial production.

০. The industrial undertaking —

1 TIN. holder;

ii. Maintenance its books of accounts in accordance withthe provision of this Act:

iii. Maintain sperate and distinct accounts;

iv. File.its réturn in accordance with the provision of this Act:
d. Follow the procedure described below, namely —

i. Afi application for accelerated depreciation allowance shall be. made to the Board, in
prescribed form and manner, within. 6 months from the last day of the month of
commencement of commercial production:

it. A decleration to the effect that the industrial establishment.is not exempted from tax under
any section of this Act and has not and will not make any application to the Board for
exemption from:tax..

5. If accelérated depreciation allowance is allowed on any asset in any income year, no normal
depreciation or initial depreciation allowance. shall be allowed.

11.10 Arrangements: relating to profit or loss and sale or transfer of asset
According to para 7 of part 1 of Third Scheduel, where any asset is sold or transferred by an assessee
in any income ‘year, no depreciation allowance shall be allowed under this Third Schedule ‘against'such
asset in that income year.

Page | 168

11.11 Amortization

1, Computation of Amortization: According to para 1 of part 2 of Third Schedule, the amortization
allowance shall be: computed Gn straight line basis.

2. Amortization of license fee: where a resident company pays any:amount as license fee for the
purpose of obtaining permission from an authority approved by the Government to carry on.
business for two or more years, it:shall be: deducted from the income of the business of the
company at the proportionate rate up to the last year of the last year of license period.

3. Amortization of pre-commencement expense: Rate of amortization of pre-commencement
expense. shall be 20%.

4. Amortization of research and development expenditure: Amortization rate of research and
development expenditure shall be 10%.

5. Amortization of computer software and applications: The rate of amortization of computer
software. and application shall be as:follows:

a. 20% in respect of any:software and applications developed in Bangladesh;

b. 10% in. respect of any:software. and applications developed outside Bangladesh:

6. Amortization of disallowed expenditure: If any expenditure claimed by the assessee is
disallowed treating as:capital expenditiire, 10% amortization on such disallowed expenditure shall
be allowable in subsequent assessment years.

11.12 Carry-forward of depreciation allowance.
According to section 71 of ITA, 2023,

1. If any depreciation allowed under this Act, is not fully charged as, expenditure against the gross
income of an assessment year, it‘shall be added to the depreciation o the next assessment
year.

2. 1406 depreciation allowance shall bé. carry-forward in case of-failure to comply with any’ provision
of this Act.

3. Carry — forwarded loss shall be:adjusted before charging carry-forwarded deprecation.

4. Allowable depreciation can be carry-forward till fully adjusted.

Worked examples and solutions

Worked example 1

Comipany X, whose accounting year is ended on June 30 éach year, has purchased a machine. for
Taka 20 Lakhs on 29 June, 2019 and sold the same on 1* April 2022 for Tk. .25 lakhs. Compute
balancing charge-and capital gain.
Solution 1
Assessment Rate of depreciation Depreciation Written down value
year
2,009,000
2019-20 200;000 1,800,000
2020-21 180,000 1,620,000
2021-22 162,000 1,458,000
Total gain: Sale proceeds — Written down value = Tk. 2,500,000 — Tk. 1,458,000 = Tk.1,042,000
Page. | 169

Capital gain = ও৪[6.0/66৫66039.- Original cost = Tk. 2,500,000 — Tk: 2,000,000 = Tk. 500,000
Balancing charge = Total gain — Capital gains = Tk. 1,042,000 - Tk. 500,000 = Tk. 542,000
Notes:
1. Difference bétween sales price and ojfiginal cost is capital gain to be assessed in 2023-24
assessment year.
2. Balancing charge equals to depreciation allowances so far enjoyed i.e. Tk. 542,000 (200,000 +
180,000 + 162,000).
ও. The company received the depreciation allowance in 2019-20 assessment year, for just buying
the machine one: day before its year end. Had it been 1১: July, 2019, the allowance would have
started from the assessment year 2020-21 i.e. corresponding income. year 2019-20. Similarly, on
disposal giving rise to balancing charge and capital gain, it has delayed the tax impact by one year
just by completing the sale on 1% April, 2022 instead of 30 June, 2021.
Worked example 2
Company X bought a machine for Tk. 50 lakhs on 10 July, 2019 to be used in its expansion unit in
Savar, Dhaka. The investment is qualified for accelerated depreciation under Third Schedule. The
company ‘sold the machine on'15 January, 2022 for Tk. 20 lakhs, The Company's year ends on 30"
June. Calculate depreciation for the relevant assessment years.
Solution 2
Assessment year 2020-21
Cost Allowance
5,000,000 fe
Accelerated depreciation allowance (34 Schedule) 2,500,000 2,500,000
(50%)
2,500,000
Assessment year 2021-22
Accelerated depreciation allowance (30%) Pp | 1,500,000
0005470900৪] 1000000
Assessment year 2023-24
Sale proceeds | «| «2,000,000
No depreciation in the year of disposal Pid |
Less: WDV | «Ys: 1,000,000
Revenue gain from sale of machine | === «| 1,000,000:
Notes:
Difference.between accounting and tax profits arises:mainly because of timing what:accouritants charge
in the accounts:as depreciation and what tax law allows. Since, both the way calculates on the cost as
the upper limit, there ' would be no difference in the long run. However, after tax results, of companies
differ significantly from year to year or across'the industry because: of the taxation anomaly.
Page | 170

To remove this problem :and to show'an even after-tax results year after year companies can maintain
deferred taxation account in accordance with IAS 12 (Accounting for income tax).
Self-assessment questions
1) Enumerate different types of depreciation allowance?
2) What is the basic difference between depreciation allowance and investment allowance?
3) An asset was bought some years back for' Tk. 10,00,000, the. WDV of which was Tk. 600,000. Find
out the tax implication
a) If it was sold for Tk. 11,50,000.
b) [fit was sold for Tk. 8,50,000.
c) If it was sold for Tk..4,50,000.
Page.| 171

gee মল PERSE fr vss Ce wey fee aie 7]
Chapter 12
Set off and carry forward of losses
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list
12.2) Setoffandcarryforwardlosses রী জজ .
12.3 Carry-forward of depreciation allowance si ststi—‘i‘—s~s~TMS
Worked examples
Introduction ]
Learning objectives
= Define set offand carry forward of losses.
= Identify areas where: set.off of losses is possible.
® Identify the heads of loss permissible for carry forward.
দ Identify the situations when carry forward is not permissible.
® Explain maximum years when carry forward is possible.
= Differentiate carry forward of losses by individuals, firms and partners. চু
= Explain the carry forward of losses by undertakings enjoying tax holiday facilities.
দ [llustrate the concept of set off and carry forward of losses in different:situations.
Practical significance
Set off and carry forward of losses'is very important and practically significant to compute total income
of any year. These are the benefits enjoyed by assesses to cover up their losses before paying taxes
to the government.
Set off means the coverage of loss under one head against another head in a specific: year. Carry
forward is: the transferring of loss of a year to the succeeding year or’years for coverage if set off was
Page | 172

not possible or insufficient. Such set off and carry forward facility can be availed provided that certain
‘conditions are fulfilled. This chapter presents such guidelines.
After carry forward, losses from any head cannot be set off against income from. any other heads. And
losses cannot. be carried forward for unlimited period. Thus, professional accountants need clear
understanding on each topic:of this chapter:
Subject to some conditions, an assessee is allowed ‘to set off arid carry forward of losses. The carry
forward of losses under different heads of income.are varied.
You will find the details of the above issues in this chapter with some practical éxample.
Stop and think
Do you realize that the understanding of set.off and carry forward of loses is important for computation
of total income? Can you determine the total income from different heads of income after set off and
carry forward of losses?
Working context
In practice, as the accountants are sometimes required to support to prepare their clients’ tax returns,
they need to advise the clients‘on how to calculate‘the total income for any income year. Before advising
the clients, accountants should have the clear concept relating to set off and carry forward of losses: in
determining the‘total income.
Syllabus links
Thé topics. covered in this chapter are very important for computing total income which is required for
solving sample practical problems at this level.
|[Examination context |
Exam requirements
In the examination, students may be. required to:
x Understanding provisions regarding.set:off and carry forward of losses.
দ Identify. areas where set off of losses is possible.
= Identify carry forward of losses from income from agriculture. ৰা
= Identify carry forward of lossés from iricome from business. and profession.
® = Identify carry forward of'losses from income from speculation business:
» — Identify carry forward of'losses from capital gains.
2 Identify. carry forward of losses from income from house. property.
= Identify carry forward of losses from income of a. partnership firm.
= — Identify the situations‘when carry forward is hot permissible.
® Explain maximum years when carry forward is possible:
" Explain the application of unabsorbed depreciation and its impact on income from business:
and profession.
= Differentiate carry forward of losses by individuals, firms: and partners.
® Explain the carry forward. by. uridertakings enjoying tax holiday‘facilities.
2 Illustrate the concept of set-off and carry forward of losses in different:situations.
Question practice
For question practice on. these topics go to the suggested answers covering this chapter and also this
‘Manual.
Page.| 1.73

Examiner's comments on how students ‘should tackle questions
Candidates. have to be prepared well for this area as this chapter consists of core concept on
computation of income which is vital for calculating tax liability. Clear concept and understanding of
each contents ofthis chapter will help candidates to resolve any problenis relating to set off and carry
forward of losses.
12.0 SET OFF AND CARRY FORWARD OF LOSSES
Section overview
> Loss arising in one head of income can be setoff against profit arising Under any other héad except.
from, capital loss’ or loss on speculative business in the same year. Business loss.cannot be set off
against house property income.
> Balancé of loss, if remains, can be carried forward ‘to: be set-off against 01000 07067581775 head for
six years.
> Unabsorbed depreciation brought forward together with, current:year's depreciation allowance forms
total depreciation charge for'the year.
> Unabsorbed depreciation can be carried forward indefinitely i.e. without time limit of six years.
12.1 Introduction to set offand carry forward of losses
Tax is. imposed on income. and thus, if ldss is. generated from any. heads: government offers sufficient
options to make the: assessee well off enough.so that tax may be collected. Two such options are:
a) Set off
b) Carry forward and then set off
Logically, set off considers:only one year whereas carry forward includes subsequent year or years. As
assessee have. multiple sources of income, it is. very common that loss will not generate from each
head. Thus, losses from one head may be: adjusted with income from other heads so that net figure
results income and tax can be imposed on it. However, if the total income from all head's:results losses,
set off cannot be done practically. In such a situation, loss of one year can be carried forward to
‘subsequent year or years for:set off. This chapter presents these two issues in detail.
412.2.Set off and carry-forward of losses: section 70
According to section 70. of ITA; 2023,
1. Subject tothe provision of 2 (below), the assessed loss of any head in an assessment year can
be: set off against any other head.
2. No loss mentioned in the below table can be adjusted against income of head or source other
than from that head or:source, namely —
Source-or head of loss As can be adjusted
no
Capital loss Only with capital gain
Loss from speculation business Only with income:from speculation business
Loss from tobacco business Only with income from tobacco business
Page | 174

3. The loss of any source or head to which tax: is exempted, reduced tax. rate or minimum tax is
applicable shall 70086 set-off or carry-forward.
4. The assessed loss of a firm or AOP shall be set-off only against the assessed income of the firm
or AOP and shall 70106 set-off against the income of:any partner of the-firm or AOP.
5. Ifthe assessed loss of any head in an assessment year is not fully set-off with the income of any
other head or source of that year, set-off cah be given in the next 6 successive years.
12.3, Carry-forward of depreciation allowance
According to section 71 of ITA, 2023,
1. If.any depreciation allowed under this Act, is not fully charged as expenditure against the gross
income of an assessment year, it shall be: added to the depreciation 0 the next.assessment year:
2. No depreciation allowance shall be carry-forward in case of failure to comply with any provision of
‘this. Act.
3. Carry forwarded loss shall be. adjusted before charging carry-forwarded deprecation.
4. Allowable depreciation can be carry-forward till fully adjusted:
Example:
A, B, and C'were partners in a firm sharing profits in the ratio of 3:2:1. During income year 2022--23, 8
retired and partner A and C continued in the ratio of 3:1. Up to'that year brought forward loss of the firm
amounted to Tk. 300,000. Net profit for the current’year amounted ‘to Tk. 500,000.
Here is ৪ case of change in the constitution of the firm. The firm cannot set off retiring partner's share
of loss against its profit for the current assessment yéar 2023-24, which is (2/6:*: Tk. 300,000) = Tk.
100,000 nor C can individually set off.or carry forward his share of the loss.
Assessment year 2023-24 ;
Tk.
Net profit রা 500,000
Brought forward. of previous year’s loss 200,000
Adjusted profit 300,000
Above set-off loss arising from partnership firm is not-allowed under section 70(4) of ITA, 2023.
Worked. examples
Worked example 1
Mr. Amir Hossain has ‘the following income. in different income years. Calculate, his ‘total income after
‘considering provisions relating to-set off and carry forward of losses.
| 2019-20 | 2020-21 | 2021-22
Interest on securities 20,000 30,000 | 20,000
Income from house. property 1,30;000 1,20,000 | '1,30,000
Income from agriculture (1,70,000) (30,000) | 40,000
meome from speculative (40,000) 50,000
usiness -
Capital gain 25000 | |e
Page.| 175

Solution 1:
গা Hossain
Income year: 2019-20.
Assessment year 2020-21
og Taxable. Carry
সমমান
Income:from house. property. 1,30,000
Income available. to set off losses from agriculture 1,50,000 1,50,000
Income available after set off (20,000)
Carry forward (losses from agriculture) 20,000
Income after set off & carry'forward of losses -
Income-from capital gains Total 25,000
Mr. Amir Hossain
Income year: 2020-21
Assessment year: 2021-22
income forward
Interest on securities ee ee ee
Income from house property 1;20,000:
Income available to set off losses from agriculture 1,50,000 1,50,000
Income from agriculture (30,000) ee
Set off: Current’year loss Income (30,000):
after-set off 1,20,000 1,20,000
Carry forward: last year loss. from agriculture 20,000
Carry forward: Income from speculative business 40,000
Income after set off & carry forward of losses,
Mr. Amir Hossain
Income year: 2021-22
Assessment year: 2022-23
; re ‘Taxable Carry
sss | Tee [OY
Interest.on securities 20,000
Income from house property’ 1,30;,000
Income available to set off losses from agriculture 1,50,000
Income from agriculture
Set off: Losses carriéd forward from earlier ‘yéar (20,000)
Remaining income from agriculture after set off Income 20,000
from speculation 50,000
Set off: Losses carried forward from last year Remaining a ie
income’ from speculation after set off 10,000/10,.000 =| |
Income afer se of & carry forward ofesses নত [ «dS
Page | 176

Worked example 2
Mr. Jamshed Sowdagor'réports the following income for the income yearended on June 30, 2023.
However, he has some losses carried forward from ‘earlier years (income years) with the following
details:
[_Unabsorbed depreciation | 50,000 | 2009-10 ]
Solution 2:
Mr. Jamshed Sowdagor
Income year: 2022-23
“Assessment year: 2023-24
Income from business. and profession ‘500,000
Set off: Losses carried forward from 2016-17 80,000
Unabsorbed depreciation 50,000 130,000
Taxable income from business and proféssion 370,000
Income from house property 100,000
Capital gains 50,000
Set off: not allowed as it exceéds 6 years 50,000
Income from speculation business ৪0,000
Set off: Losses carried forward 01) 2013-14 40,000 40,000
Total income on which tax‘to. be applied 560,000
Page. | 177

Oe ৯ রস, 2.
হি ০ es ৮৮৮

Za Ne ge oO Ves aie, oN

COO NSS Loe ORE a eT ey

Chapter 13

Exemption and allowances (Tax holiday / other exemptions)

Introduction

Examination content

Topic list
/13.2 | Exclusion from, gross income: Section 77 (1) and Sixth Schedule, Pat? —S=S~SCS
133" | Subtract from gross income: Sixth Schedule, Pat2 ৫৫
/ 13.4 | Genearl tax relief in respect of certain investment and expenditure: section 78 and Sixth ,
cuss, Schedule 0313. ১৮৮১৮৮১১১১১ cpt sateen |
(13.6 Fiscal and other incentives ‘to ‘foreign investors in Bangladesh রা
13.7 Corporate tax holiday for IT Hardware Producers লালা
13.8 Corporate tax holiday for agro based industries’ রা
_13.9 | Corporate tax holiday for producer of light engineering products cones
13.10 | Corporate tax holiday for producer of certainhome and kitchen appliances st
13-11 Corporate tax holiday: for training institutions ee
13.12 Corporate tax holiday for private hospitals ee
: 13.13 | Corporate tax holiday for producers of automobiles নন জা
| Introduction
Learning objectives
2 Identify the area of investment for tax holiday scheme.
» Recognize’the conditions for enjoying tax holiday:
দ Determine the tax holiday income

Page | 178

Practical significance
Income from some newly established industrial undertakings are exempted from tax liability on the
basis: of fulfilling some conditions. To get'the facility of tax holiday, the undertakings need to. comply
with some conditions and if any conditions: are not fulfilled in, the course of making assessment of an
exempted assessee, the exemption will be’ withdrawn and the. DCT shall determine the tax payable-on
such income.
The tax holiday and special tax exemptions or tax concessions are provided to different types of
business and industrial Undertaking to encourage those businesses and. industries for overall
development of the country. Significant exemption on income from export'sales:also a good initiative of
government to promote the export oriented Bangladeshi companies.
Stop and think:
When you want to start a new business, you can consider’the opportunity of tax holiday or special ‘tax
exemption given by: the Government. You can be the part of the development of the country and at the
same time you can get the tax holiday facility‘to enrich your business..
Working context.
Accountants are sometimes required by the-entrepreneur for giving advice on how the. biisiness.can be
newly started or expanded along with the: tax holiday or special tax exemption facility. Chartered
accountants can help their clierits regarding new business or expansion of their business in 5001) way
that the clients can enjoy the tax holiday opportunity. Accountants should have the detailed knowledge
on the. area of tax exempted business and the updates of the rules and regulations. for getting ‘tax
holiday and other special tax exemption facility so that they can rightly advise their clients enjoying that
facility.
Syllabus links
Thé topics covered in this chapter imply the area of industry and investments from where you can get tax.
holiday benefit with the conditions'to: get that benefit.
[Examination context

Exam requirements
In the examination, students may be required to:
দ Recognize the different industrial undertakings for taking tax holiday facility.
# |[lustrate the various conditions for getting tax.holiday.
® State the way-of computing tax holiday income:
ছ Mention the reasons for withdrawal and cancellation of tax holiday.
® Define the exemption of tax liability for Bangladeshi exporting industries.
2 Mention the different:types of business considered for’special tax.exemptions.
Question practice
For question practice on these topics, go to the-suggested answers ‘covering this chapter:

Page. | 179

EXEMPTION AND TAX HOLIDAY

Section overview

> Assessee enjoying some non-assessable:income.

‘> Assessee enjoying tax rebate:on investment allowance.

> Some newly established industrial undertakings are enjoying tax holiday..

‘> There.are some conditions to get the tax holiday. facility.

‘> The purpose of tax holiday is to encourage industrial ৪170 other development of the country in
many'sectors like physical infrastructure, textile, hospital, exporting industries etc.

> Tax holiday income. shall be computed like the computation: of income from business or

profession.

> Tax holiday may be:cancelled or withdrawn if one or more conditions not fulfilled.

13.1 Exemption from:tax: Section 76

According to section 76 of ITA, 2023,

1. The board, may by notification in the official gazette, grant exemption from tax to any person-or
class of person..

2. 10 case where exemption from tax has been granted to a person. under the provision of this Act, if
tax exemption is not granted by a notification under section 76(1) of ITA; 2023. such provision ‘shall
not be operative.

3. The Board may. cancel any tax exemption by issuing a notification under section 76.

এ. Not tax exemption under this Act.shall be granted ex post facto.

5. Notwithstanding anything contained in Part 6 and any other provision of this Act, no person shall
be: exempt from ‘tax'under this Act.in any'assessment year if he fails to comply‘with the following
conditions, namely —

a. Filing'the return within the tax day; or

b. Filing return in compliance with the provision of section 166 and 171; or

০. Deduction of tax at source, collection, deposit-or filing of return relating thereto and compliance
with the provision of part 7. Or

0. Bank transfer of all receipts arid income from any’ tax exemipted source.

Provided that above provision (0 above) shall not apply in case-where the head of receipt is treated
as ‘income:from agriculture’ and the total amount of receipt does not.exceed Tk 1 crore.in any
income year:

6. In computing income from an tax exempted source of.a person, any expenditure disallowed under
section 55, as the case may be, shall be deemed to be income from the said income head of the
peron and tax shall be payable on the said income.at the regular rate.

13.2 Exclusion from gross income: Section 77 (1) and. Sixth Schedule, Part 1

Any incorie: of class of ificome or the income of any person of class of persons spécifiéd in Part 1 of
the Sixth Schedule shall be exempt from payment of tax. as per section 77(1). Following items as
spécified in Part 1. of the Sixth Schedule ofthe ITA, 2023, are exempted from tax:

1. Income of any intergovernmental organization or any international organization or any of its
employee, exempt from income tax under any Act made by the Parliament or any agreement
signed by the Government; [para 1]

2. Any income of ambassador, high commission, trade commissioner etc. [0882]

3. Grant and any tax, feé and duties received by Government of local authority; [para 3]

4. Received or due amount from the Government Pension Fund by. the assessee: [para 4]

Page | 180

5. Gratuity received from Government Gratuity Fund up to Tk 25,000,000; [para 5]

6. Any recognized provident fund, approved superannuation fund, pension fund and approved
gratuity fund — [para 6] -

a. Any contribution received from employer or-employee; and
b. The income distribution among the beneficiaries thereof for which the fund is, chargeable to
tax.
Provided that the amount received by the assessee as gratuity from any approved gratuity fund
does not exceed 25,000,000.

7. Any income. accruing to or derived by a provided fund to which the Provident.Fund Act, 1925
applies: [para 6]

8. Any amount received under any scheme approved by the Government for the purpose:on voluntary
retirement by:any employee of a Government body, local authority, or autonomous body or semi-
autonomous body and their controlled units or institutions; [para 8]

9. Any amount received as interest from Pensioners Savings Certificate where invested amount does
not exceed Tk 500,000; [para 9]

10: Any income earned by following entities recognized by BSEC: [para 10]

a. Mutual Fund;

b. Alternative Investment Fund:
০. Real Estate investment Trust;
d. Exchange: Traded Fund;

11. Income of charitable or religious trust; [para 14]

12. Subscription. received by religious or charitable institution used only for religious or charitable
purpose: [para 12]

13., Any service charge arising out of the microcredit activities of any private organization registered
with the NGO Affairs Bureau or Microcredit Regulatory Authority if —

a. Revolving only as microcredit
b. Fund is not.used to acquire any asset other that microcredit revolving
০. Fund not used as-capital of any business other than microcredit revolving.

14. Reimbursement of expense ofan employee by employer if —

a. The said expenses are fully and necessarily incurred in accordance with the performance of
the duties-of the employee; and

b. It was most convenient for the employer to incur such expense through said employee. [para
14]

15.. The portion of income received by the assessee as a partner in a partnership firm as part of capital
income on'which tax has been paid by the firm. [para 15]
16. The amount recéived by'an assessee as a member of HUF on which tax is. paid by’ that. family.

[para 16]

17. Any income earned abroad by.a Bangladeshi individual person which. hé brings 1700 Bangladesh
in. accordance: with existing laws relating to foreign remittance. [para: 17]

18. Any. income received from wage earner development ‘fund, US Dollar premium bond, US dollar
investment bond, Euro premium bond, Euro investment bond, pound starling investment bond or
pound starling premium. bond. [para 18]

19. Any income received from economic activities undertaken by indigenous Hillman in the hill districts
of Rangamati, Bandarban and Khagrachari. [prar 19]

20. Income of any individual not exceeding Tk 200,000 within the scope of “Income from Agriculture’,
if'such person —

a. 13 a farmer by profession;

b. Does:not have any income other‘than following income in the relevant income year, namely —
i. Income arising from land cultivation;

ii. Income from interest or profit not more than Tk 20,000. [para 20]

21..Income derived from the business of software development and specific Information Technology
Enabled Services (ITES) for the period from July.01, 2020 to June 30,:2024.[para 21] .

22.. Any income derived from the expoit'of handicrafts for the. period from July’01, 2020 to June:30, 2024.
[para 22]

Page.| 181

23. Any amount paid by the:government.as tax on behalf of a petroleum exploration company engaged
in exploration of petroleum products in Bangladesh under Production:Sharing Contract (PSC) with
the Government of Bangladesh. [para 23]

24. Income derived from any:Small and Medium Enterprise (SME) engaged in production of any goods
and having an annual turnover of not. more than Tk.50,00,000/. In case of woman entrepreneur,
the Ceiling is however Tk. 70,00,000.[para 24]

25. Any:income derived from Zero Coupon Bond received bya person other than Bank, Insurance. or
any Financial Institution, subject to the following Conditions:

a. that the Zero-Coupon Bond is issued by Bank, Insurance or any Financial Institution with prior
approval of Bangladesh Bank and Sécurities.and Exchange Commission.

b. that the Zero-Coupon Bond is issued by any institution other than Bank, Insurance or any
Financial Institution with prior approval of Sécurities-and Exchange Commission. [para 25]

26.. Any receive by an educational institution which is not considered ‘as ‘income form financial asset’

and if the educational institution comply with following conditions —

a. Within the Government MPO;

b. Follows the curriculum approved by the Government;

০. The governing body is constituted as per rules of the Government. [para 26]

27. One ‘third of income classified under the head ‘income from emoloyment’ or- Tk 450,000 whichever
is lower. [para.27]

28. Any income (except interest:and dividend) received by:any ‘public university:and professional body
like ICAB, ICMAB and ICSB [Para 28]

29. Any honorarium or allowance from Bangladesh Freedom Fighters Welfare Trust or any welfare
allowance received by:any persons:from the Govt. [Para 29].

30.. Any reward received by any person from the Govt. [Para 30].

31. Income derived from the operation of an élderly care home ora day care home for children [Para-
31]

32. Any distribution of taxed dividend to any company if the company distributing such taxed dividend
has maintained-separate account for the taxed dividend. [Para-32]

33. Businéss: income earned by an ocean going ship being Bangladeshi flag cartier within 30 June.
2030 bring similar income following the provision relating to foreign remittance. [para 33].
It-should be noted that above exemption is subject to following conditions as provided by section
77 (1) of ITA, 2023:

(a) Deduction from the total income shall be properly acconted for in the relevant column;

(b) The source and amount of income-shall be submitted with return.

13.3 Subtract from gross income: Sixth Schedule, Part 2
As per section 77 (2)'and Sixth Schedule, Part 2, following income shall be deducted from the total
income, namely —

1. Assessee in any income year by bank transfer —

a. Any income donated to any fund established under or by the Prime Minister's, Education
Assistance Trust Act, 2012 subject to following maximum limit‘ —
i. 10% of the income:of the company or Tk.8 crores whichever is less;
ii. 10% of the come of the other than comipany‘or Tk 1 crore whichever is less.
b. Income donated to any girl’s school or women college approved by the ministry of education;
০. Income donatéd ‘to any technical orvocational ‘training institute approved by the ‘ministry of
education:

2. Income donated by the assésseée in any income year through banking transfer to any national level
organization involved im research and development for agriculture, science, technology and
industrial development..

It should be noted that above exclusion is subject to following condition as provided by section
77(2) of ITA, 2023,
Page | 182

(a) The donation is reflected in the return or particulars. or documents annexed to the return; _
(8) The total amount of the: donation made: under part:2 of Sixth Schedule does not exceed 10%
ofthe total income disclosed before donation:

(0) The source and amount of income shall be submitted with return.

13:4 Genearl tax relief in respect: of certain investment:and expenditure: section 78 and Sixth

schedule part:3

Subject to the provision of this Act and.subject.to the limits, conditions and qualifications set out in part

3 of the Sixth:Schedule, any investment'made or by the resident individual and nonresident Bangladeshi

shall be eligible for rebate from tax on total income as per below—

(a) 0.03 .X A; or

(b) 0.15 :X B; or

(c) Tk 1,000,000.

Whichever is lower:
Where,

A= Total income excluding tax:exempted income, income suject'to reduced tax rate.and income;subject

to minimum tax.

B = Total investment.and expenditure. of the assessee as per Part 3 of Sixth Schedule in any income

year.

Thé following items should be considered as. investment allowance to Enjoy tax. rebate facility as per

Sixth Schedule (Part-3):

1. Life insurance premium [Para —1]:

Any sum paid in Bangladesh by an assessee to effect on insurance or a contract for deferred
annuity on the life of himself, spouse:of minor child, provided ‘that such payment shall not exceed
10% of the sum assured (excluding bonus or other benefits).
Provided that not rebate under this para shall be allowed unless the premium or the life insurance
policy or contractual deferred annuity is paid in Bangladesh.

2. Life insurance’ premium paid by a Hindu Undivided Family [Para=2]:

Any sum paid in Bangladesh by a HUF ‘to effect on insurance on the life of any male member of
the family or the wife of any'such member.

Provided that not rebate. undér this para shall ৮6 allowed unless the premium or the life insurance
policy orcontractual deferred annuity is paid in Bangladesh.

3. Deduction ‘from the salary-of Government employee for deferred annuity [Para —3]: Any sum 701
‘exceeding one-fifth of the salary deducted from the salary payable by the Government or-on its
behalf to any individual in accordance.with ‘the.service conditions to secure a-deferred annuity’for
him or for his. wife or children.

4. Contribution to Provident Fund [Para —4]:.

Any contribution by an asséssee to any provident fund ‘to which the Provident Fund Act, 1925
applies.

5. Employer's and Employee's contribution toa Recognized Provident Fund [Para —5]: Any.sum
paid to a recognized provident fund by the assessee and the employer, where the assessee is a
participant subject to the limits laid down in Part 3 of the Second Schedile.

Page:| 183

6. Contribution to Superannuation Fund [Para —6]:
Any sum paid by the assessee as ordinary annual contribution to approved superannuation fund in
which assessee.is a participant to the fund.

7. Investment in Savings Certificate. etc: [Para —7]:
Any sum invested by'an assessee other than a company in the following:
a) Any Government securities not exceéding Tk 500,000;

b) Unit certificates and mutual fund, ETF or mutual scheme certificate issued by any financial
institution or ICB or-asset management:or 070 management not exceeding Tk 500,000;

c) Deposit ina deposit pension scheme or monthly savings scheme sponsored by any scheduled bank
‘or financial institution not exceeding 120,000 ;

8: Investment in listed securities [Para —8] :
Any sum invested by an assessee, invest, through of any’ secutiies: listed with any :stock
exchange.

9: Donation to 4 charitable. hospital [Para —9]:
Any sum paid as donation to NBR approved charitable hospital established outside the city
corporation area, provided the donation is made after one year of establishment of the hospital.

10. Donation to organizations set up for the welfare of disabled people [Para —10]:
Any sum paid as donation to:an organization set.up for the welfare of disabled people, provided
the donation is made aftér one year of establishment of the organization and is approved by the
Social Welfare Department and the NBR.

11. Donation to Govt. Zakat Fund [Para —114]:
Any sum paid by an assessee as Donation/Zakat to the. Zakat Fund established by or under the
Zakat Fund Management Act, 2023.

12. Contribution to Benevolent Fund and Group Insurance Scheme [Para —12]:
Any sum paid by an assessee to: make provision for his spouse, children or other dependent
personto a benevolent fund or any’premium paid Undeér:a group insurance scheme approved by
the NBR.

13. Contribution to philanthropic or-educational institution [Para —13]:
Any sum paid by an assessee as donation to Philanthropic or Educational Institution approved by
the government for this. purpose.

14. Donation to national level institution set up in memory of the liberation war [Para-14]: Any sum
paid by-an assessee as donation to a national level institution set up in memory of liberation war.

15. Donation to national level institution set up in memory of Father of the Nation [Para15]:
Any sum paid by an,assessee as donation to a national level institution set up in memory of Father
of the nation.

Page | 184

13.5 Tax Holiday

13.5.1 Income of approved tax holiday entity

According to séction 81 of ITA, 2023,

1. Subject to the provisions of this. Act, income under the head ‘Income. from business’ earned by an
approved tax holiday entity shall be fully or partially exempted under Part 4: of the Sixth Schedule
and chapter 10 subject to limits, conditions and qualification for the prescribed period.

2. Any tax exempted income shall not be included in the total income of the assesse, however, shall
be:shown in. the relevant part of the return.

3. Ah approved tax holiday entity shall be granted tax exemption under sub-section 1 of section 81
subject to following conditions, namely:—

a. The entity is owned and operated by such person who —

i. Is a‘statutory body established by or under law having its head office in Bangladesh;

ji. Is.a company as defined in ‘the. Companies Act,. 1994 and having its: registered office in Bangladesh
and having paid-up capital not less than Tk.2,000,000.

4. The entity is not formed by separating ‘from any such business which ‘is already existence or by
reorganization;

5. Any factory, machinery, equipment or-any other important immovable-property if previously not used
by any-entity in Bangladesh;

6. Said entity —

a. Obtained TIN:

b. Has maintained books.of accounts in accordance with the provisions of this Act;

c. Maintained books of accounts separately.

Explanation — for the purpose of ‘this section, ‘approved tax holiday entity’ méans an entity in an
income year from income is derived from business:and which — :

(a) Has been approved by ‘the. Board for partial or full tax exemption under chapter 8;

(6) 15 allowed for such tax' exemption or deduction in the relevant ificome year.

13.5.2 Approval of'tax holiday entity by'the board

According to section 82 of ITA, 2023,

1. A businéss entity’shall submit an application ifthe: manner prescribéd by the Board within the: month
of commencement of its commercial activities for availing tax holiday. benefit.

2. Within 60 days from the date of receipt'of the application, the Board shall, by order in written, give.a
decision on the application filed under section 82(1).

3. If'the. board fails to give a decision within the period mentioned above (i.6..60 days: from application
receipt), the application for tax holiday’shall be deemed to have been granted and the business entity
shall be deemed to be a tax holiday entity: until the. Board gives a its-decision on this.

4. The:board shall not cancel the application without giving reasonable opportunity. of being heard.

5. If.any applicant is aggrieved by the decision of the Board, the-said applicant may appeal to the Board
‘within 4 months: of the receipt.of the decision and the: Board may reconsider the: previous order and
issue an appropriate order.

6. Without prejudice to:the provisions of 1 above, the Board may grant.and review approvals under this
section or make rules-on any matter as it thinks fit for the purpose of ensuring tax compliance of tax
holiday entities.

13.5.3 Transactions with associated entities

Page| 185

According to. section 83 of ITA, 2023,

1. Where-an approved tax holiday entity enter into a transaction with any of its associated entity and if
‘the. DCT is satisfied ‘that —

a. Transaction are not at open market:price; and

b. The.income. of any associated entity in any income year is less than the actual income as a result of
such transaction.

In:such case the income to which the associated entity ‘is understated shall be treated as income of the

tax holiday entity and shall be classified under ‘income. from other sources: for the said income year.

13.5.4 Computation of income of approved tax holiday entity

According to section 84 of ITA, 2023,

1. Income of'an approved tax holiday entity'shall be computed separately from-any other business.

2. Income of the approved tax holiday entity shall be computed in the same manner under the heard
‘income form business’.

3. Only‘the normal depreciation as per Part 1 of the Third Schedule shall be allowed in computing the
income from business of-an approved tax holiday entity:

4. The:computed loss:of an approved tax. holiday entity for any income: year shall not be set-off against
‘the. profit of any other entity or source/head of the assessee ‘which is not an approved tax holiday
entity.

5. ‘Tax holiday benefit shall not be applicable. to the income arising from said. entity as: a result of
disallowance. under section 55 and such income shall be. taxed at the regular rate.

13.5.5 Cancellation. of tax exemption.

According to section 85 of ITA, 2023,

1. Where it appears from any proceedings taken under this Act'that an approved tax holiday entity has
failéd to comply with any. of the conditions: sét out in this: chapter, the DCT shall not grant the
exemption to the approved tax holiday entity and he can determine. tax liability for the said entity in
‘the regular’manner:and rate in the said income. year.

2. The. tax holiday entity may submit a written. application to the Board against the cancellation order
‘within one year from the order receipt date. The board may: issue an. appropriate order.

3. Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, the Board may, in the. public interest, cancel
wholly or suspend any’exemption under this. section by notification in the Official Gazette.

13.5.6 Types of business eligible for tax holiday.

Two types of business are eligible to apply for tax holiday: -

1. Industrial undertaking;
2. Physical infrastructure facility.
As per par 4 of Sixth Schedule following undertakings are eligible for tax holiday under
Industrial Undertakings:
1. Active pharmaceuticals ingredient industry and radio pharmaceuticals industry;
2. Agriculture machineries;
3. Automatic bricks;
4. Automobile;
5. Barrier contraceptive and rubber latex;
6. Basic:components of electronics (e.g. resistance, capaclTAr, transistor,
Page | 186

7. integrated circuit, multilayer PCB étc:);

8. Bi- cycle including parts’thereof:

9. Bio-fertilizer:

10. Biotechnology based agro products;

11. Boiler including parts and equipment thereof;

12. Compressor including parts thereof;

13. Computer hardware;

14. Furniture;

15. Home appliances (blender, rice cooker, microwave: oven, electric oven, washing machine,
induction cooker, water'filter etc.);

16. Insecticide or pesticide;

17. Leather and leather goods;

18. LED TV

19. Locally produced fruits and vegetables processing;

20. Mobile phone

21. Pétro-chemicais:

22. Pharmaceuticals;

23. Plastic:tecyclirig;

24. Textile machinery:

25. Tissue grafting:

26. Toy manufacturing;

27. Tyre manufacturing;

28. Electrical Transformer

29. Artificial fiber or manmade fiber manufacturing

30. Automobile parts and components manufacturing

31. Automation and Robotics design, manufacturing including parts and cornponents

32. Artificial Intelligence. based system design and/or manufacturing

33. Nanotechnology based products. manufacturing

34. Aircraft heavy maintenance services including parts, manufacturing,

35. Locally produced fruits. and vegetables processing and preservation,

36. Tissue grafting, biotechnology and development of radio active (diffusion) application industry
(i.e. improvement of polymer quality or degradation of polymers or preservation of food or
sterilization of medical devices) ,

37..Any other category of industries as the Govt. may notify in the official Gazette,

Note that approved ‘tax holiday entity shall be located in Bangladesh and shall commence commercial
production between July 2020 and June.2025.
If any tax holiday entity is situated in any district (outside City Corporation area) other than Dhaka, or:
Chittagong Division and Rangamati, Bandarban or Khagrachari District, then it:shall be exempted from
tax for 10 years from the commencement of commercial production at the rates mentioned in the below
table:

Page:| 187

If the approved tax holiday entity is located in Dhaka or Chittagong division (outside 006.00/ corporation
area), it shall be eligible for tax exemption at the rate mentioned in the below table for a period of 5
years fromthe month of commencement of commercial production, namely —
As per part 4 of Sixth Schedule following categories are within the meaning of Physical
infrastructure facility:
1. | Deep'sea port;
2. Elevated expressway;
3. Export processing zone;
4. Flyover;
5. Toll road or bridge;
6. Gas pipe line;
~. [সা park, zone or village;
8. — Hi-tech park;
9. Approved water‘treatment plant;
10. Liquefied Natural Gas terminal and trafismission line;
11. | Mono-rail or sub-way railway;
12, Renewable energy (e.g., energy saving bulb, solar energy plant, windmill);
13. Any other category of industries as the Govt. may notify in the official Gazette,
Note that approved ‘tax holiday entity shall be located in Bangladesh and shall commence commercial
production between July 2020 and June.2025.
Tax exemption at the rate mentioned in the below table for a period of 5 years from the month: of
commencement of commercial production, namely —
Page | 188

13.6 Fiscal and other incentives to-foreign investors in Bangladesh
Bangladesh always encourages foreign investment in the country for the economic: development
of the country. Thus, the government provides incentives. to encourage foreign investment in the
country through different wings/depattments of the government. A summary of such incentive is.
given below:
Approval authorities Other incentives
BOI/BIDA Permission to establish industry 100% Foreign equity allowed
Bangladesh Bank: Remittance facility ‘Unrestricted exit; policy
NBR Concessionary income tax.in lieu of Full repatriation facilities of
tax holiday and accelerated dividend and capital at the event of
depreciation, concessionary duty on | exit
imported machinery’
Avoidance of double taxation’ in
selective.countries
BEPZA Remittance of royalty, technical
know-how, technical assistance fee
13.7 Corporate tax holiday for IT Hardware Producers [S.R.O. 163-Ain/Aykar/2021, dated
03.06:2021]:
Tax exemption, subject to certain conditions, for ten years-on production of some:selective IT
(information technology). hardware [motherboard, casing, UPS (Uninterruptible Power Supply), speaker,
sound system, power supply, USB (Universal Serial Bus) cable, CCTV (Closed-Circuit Television) and
pen drive] if manufactured in Bangladesh. Conditions include registered with BIDA.(Bangladesh
Investment Development Authority), at least 30 percent value addition in own factory, and
commencement of commercial production within 30 June 2030.
13.8 Corporate tax holiday for agro based industries [S.R.O. 164-Ain/Aykar/2021, dated
03.06.2021]:
Tax exemption, subject to certain conditions, for ten years’to industries engaged in processing locally
grown fruits and vegetables, producing milk and dairy products, producing baby food entirely from
locally grown agricultural products, and manufacturing of agricultural machineries. Conditions include
investment of at\léast‘Tk. 1 crore; registered with BIDA (Bangladesh Investment Development
Authority); at least 30 percent value addition in own factory for manufacturing of agricultural
‘machineries; and commencement of commercial production within a. period from 1 July 2021 to.30 June
2030.
13.9 Corporate tax holiday for producer of light engineering products [S.R.O. 166 -
ain/Aykar/2021, dated 03.06.2021]:
Tax exemption, subject to certain conditions, for ten years to'the companies engaged in production of
certain light engineering products. Conditioris include registered with BIDA (Bangladesh Investment
Development Authority); and commencement:of commercial production within a period from 1 July .2021
to 30. June 2030.
13.10 Corporate tax holiday for producer of certain home.and kitchen appliances [S.R.O. 167-
Ain/Aykar/2021, dated 03.06.2021]:
Page| 189

Tax exemption, subject to: certain conditions, for ten years to the companies engaged in production of
certain home and kitchen appliances [washing machine, blender, microwave oven, electric sewing
machine, induction cooker, kitchen-hood, and kitchen Knives]. Coriditions include registered with. BIDA.
(Bangladesh Investment Development Authority); at least 30 percent value addition in own factory for
manufacturing of the home:and kitchen appliances; and commencement of commercial production within
a period from 1 July 2021 to 30 June: 2030.

13.11 Corporate tax holiday for training institutions [S.R.O. 168-Ain/Aykar/2021, dated
03.06:2021]::

Tax exemption, subject to certain conditions, for ten years from the date of approval to institutions
established to impart. all sorts of diploma and vocational education on agriculture, fisheries, science and
IT, and also to institutions engaged if delivering professional training on automobile, aircraft maintenance,
food, footwear, glass, mechanical, shipbuilding, leather, refrigeration, ceramics, mechanist, garments
design and pattern making, pharmacy, nursing, integrated medical, radiology and imaging, ultrasound,
dental, animal health and production service, clothing and garment finishing and poultry farming.
Conditions include investment of at least Tk. 5 crore; registered with BIDA (Bangladesh Investment.
Development Authority); and approved from relevant Board/Council.

13.12 Corporate tax holiday for private hospitals [S.R.O. 169-Ain/Aykar/2021, dated 03.06.2021):
Tax 6xemption, subjéct to certain conditions, for'ten years to general hospitals with.a minimum of 250
bed capacity and having child and infant care, women and mother care, oncology, wellbeing and
preventive medicine: units, and also to specialized hospitals with a minimum of 200 bed capacity. These
hospitals are. to be established in districts other than Dhaka, Narayanganj, Gazipur and Chittagong.
Conditions include: registered with BIDA (Bangladesh Investment Development Authority); approval of
DGHS (Directorate General of Health Services) as hospital’ and commencement of commércial
production within a period from 1 July 2021 to 30 June 2030.

13.13 Corporate tax holiday for producer of automobiles [S.R.O. 170-Ain/Aykar/2021, dated
03.06:2021]:

Tax exemption, subject to certain conditions, to the companies engaged in production of three and four
wheelers in Bangladesh for ten’ years. which may be extended to further ten years on the fulfillment of
certain other conditions. Conditions include: investment of at least Tk. 100 crore; registered with BIDA.
(88179180651 Investment Development Authotity); at least.30 percent value addition in own factory over
full tax: exemption. period: at least 40 percent value addition in own factory for tax rate of 10% over next
10 years, otherwise. ordinary corporate tax rate is applicable; commencement of commercial production
within 30 June. 2030.
Page | 190

2 SN he নে

Chapter 14

Deduction/collection of tax at source

Contents

Introduction

Examination context:

Topic list
44-1 | Person responsible for tax deduction atsource.. = ~~ ~~ ~~ t~C~S
i 14.2 } Time. limit for payment of tax deducted at source !
: 14.3 | Manner of payment of tax deducted at:source !
i 14.4 | Issuance of certificate for tax deducted at‘source i
i 14.5 | Rates. of TDS at a glance
: 14.6 | TDS as minimum tax u/s 163 i
i ‘14.7 | Other issues relating to TDS: ;
Introduction

Learning objectives

® Recognize different.classes of income from where tax are deducted or collected at source.

# Mention'the time limit and manner of payment of tax deducted at source.

s Explain the consequence of non-deduction of tax at:source where deduction is required by law..

= Define the computation, estimation and payment procedures:of TDS.

দ Mention the income heads that come under final settlement.

Practical significance

Thére aré two methods of collecting taxes, one is direct method and another is tax deducted at source.
The ordinary method of collection is direct;collection of tax from the: assessee.. Deduction of tax:at:source
is. provided for in certain specified cases. If default is made in the deduction of taxes, at source, the ‘tax.
may be collected from the assessee directly, and further the person who is liable to deduct but has not
deducted the-tax.under this section, may be held personally liable.and treated as an assessee in default
in respect of the tax.

Page| 191

This chapter presents, areas of taxes deducted at. source. 9৪701918090, provisions as, per income tax Act.
Section 163. and its application are included in detailes here. For computing taxable incomé and tax
liability this chapter is very important.
Stop and think.
There are.so. many sources where tax is required to be deducted or collected at the time of payment
Working context.
In corporate séctors, normally there. aré many payments made every day where deductions of tax at
source are required by tax law. In some cases, the accountants are asking for advice on how and when
the deductions 7660 to be done. Accotintants can provide the service to their clients on tax deduction at
source so that the clients can avoid any penalty for non-compliance of tax law.in this regard.
Detailed knowledge about the payment of tax before: assessment in compliance with tax law can help
accountants to support their clients significantly.
[Examination context |
Exam requirements:
In the éxarhination, candidates may be required to:
® Identify the classes of income from where tax is deducted or-collected at source.
= Recognize the different-amounts and rates of‘tax deducted at’source.
® Identify the responsibility for deduction of tax at source.
= Define the time limit for payment of tax-at.source.
দ Mention the manner of payment of tax deducted at:source. a a
*# Explain the result of deduction or hon-deduction of tax at source where-deduction is réquired by law.
দ Identify the areas where. tax deducted at source is considered as final payment of tax liability under
section 163.
Question practice
For question practice on these topics, go to the.suggested answers covering this chapter:
Examiner's comments: on how students:should tackle questions
Candidates need to remember the. different amount.and rates of tax deducted at source while preparing
for exam. In practical problem at case-study level, both tax deduction at source.and calculation of advance
tax may. be: asked.
14.0 PAYMENT OF TAX BEFORE ASSESSMENT
Section overview
> There are two methods of collecting taxes, direct tax arid tax deducted at-source (TDS).
> There are many classes of income from where tax is deducted or collected at source. _
> TDS shall be paid to the-credit of the Government normally within.2 weeks from the end of the morith
of deduction or collection except in the month of June and.also in case of salary.
=> Rate of TDS are varied.
Page | 192

> The deducted tax in-some cases is treated .as minimum tax.

> Tax deducting authority will be held liable. for failing ‘to déduct taxes and failing to deposit the same
with government.

> Credit of TDS:

14.1 Person responsible for tax deduction at:source: Section 140

Tax to be deducted or collected at source under Part 7 of ITA, 2023 in respect of any income’ shall be

deducted in accordance with the provisions of the Act by the person responsible. for making payment

which constitutes the income of the payee.
(a) “Person responsible for making payment’ means—

(i) in the case of payments constituting income classifiable under head the ‘income from
employment’ not being payment made by the Government, the employer himself 0 if the
employer is: a local authority, company or institution, such authority, company or institution,
including the principal officer thereof;

(ii) in the case of payment constituting income classifiable under head ‘income from financial
property’ not being payment made by or on behalf of the Government, the authority, company or

7 other institution issuing the ‘security; and _ 7

(iii) in the case of payment of any other'sum which constitutes an income of the payee chargeable 'to
tax under the Act, the payer himself, or if the payer is a company or other institution, such
company oF institution including the prificipal officer thereof.

(b) “Specific person” means—

(i) Company, firm, association of person, trust.or fund,

(ii) | Public-private partnership,

(iii) Foreign contractor, foreign enterprise, or entity registered outside Bangladesh,

(iv) Hospital, clinic, or. diagnostic center,

(v) E-commerce platform having over Tk: 1 crore annual turnover;

(vi) Hotel, community center, transport agency having over Tk. 1 crore turnover,

(vii) | Person other than farmer, engaged in. tobacco leaf, cigarette, bidi, jorda, 90] or other tobacco
product production and distribution

14.2 Time limit for payment of tax deducted at source: Rule 8 of TDS Rules, 2023
1. Allsums deducted or collected during the.month of July to May shall be deposited to’the credit:of the
Government within 2 weeks from the end of the month of deduction or'collection.
2. In case of deduction or collection made in any day from the 190 the 20".day of June of a year within
7 days from the date in which the deduction 61700600017, Was made.
3. In ‘case of deduction or collection made in any ‘other dates of the month of June of a'year the next
following day in which the deduction or collection was. made

14.3:Manner of payment of tax deducted at source: Rule 9 of TDS Rules, 2023

The person responsible for making deduction or collection of tax under Part 7 of the ITA, 2023 shall pay

the amount of tax so deducted or collected to the credit of the Government within the time specified in

rule 8 by-

(a) A-Challan, or

(b). E-payment in the: manner as specified by the Board.

Page| 193

14.4 Issuance of certificate of tax deducted or collected at source: Rule 10 of TDS Rules, 2023.

(a) Certificate as per Schedule 2 of the Rules for Tax Deducted at Source, 2023 shall be provided in
case of deduction from income form the employment under section 145 of the ITA except
government. employment. ;

(b) Certificate as per Schedule 3 of the Rules for Tax Deducted at Source, 2023 shall be provided in
case of deductions made under any other section except section 86.

(c) Where’ collection of tax has been made under Part 7 of the ITA, certificate.as per Schedule 4 of the
Rules.for Tax Deducted at Source, 2023 shall be issued.

(d) A-Challan as proof of deposit into the government treasury shall be submitted with the certificate.

(e) Certificate shall be issued within 2 weeks from the end of the month of deduction or collection or
any time suitable to settle tax obligation of the person from whom tax has been deducted.

(f) Bill of entry, registration document; bank.statement, payment:slip or information relating deduction
or collection shall be considered as Certificate of deduction. However, the above documents ‘shall
not work for the deduction from income from employment.

14.5 Rates of TDS ata glance
[Section | Source ofincome [Rates
রা আগে মম ato
রা মা মম
98 | Payment made by cellular Mobile phone 9995 10%
99 Excess payment over premium for alife nsuranes policy [5% —_—|
Page | 194

Note-1: Deduction from the ppayment to contractor, supplier etc.—section 89
Serial | Particular Rate
Serial [Particular CCRC
marketing of petroleum oil and lubricant
marketing companies
|= | BR ০০০০০১০০০০০ |
33KV to SOOKV by a company having Vertical Continuous Vulcanization.
Line
alloy’products except MS Billets
Page:| 195

| 8. | Companies engaged in producing MS Billets
| 9. | Locally procured MS Scrap
10: | Supply of rice, wheat, potato, onion, garlic, peas, chickpeas, lentils, 2%
ginger, turmeric, dried chilies, pulses, maize, coarse flour, flour, salt,
edible oil, sugar, black pepper; cinnamon, cardamom, clove, date,
cassia leaf,,jute, cotton, yarn and all kinds of fruits:
Supply of books to a person except any government bodies
Supply of trading goods'to a retailer
Supply of raw materials to a manufacturer
2 The tate of deduction of tax at source shall be 10% in case of supply of any kind of tobacco
products.
s Tax at:source shall be difference between tax deductible under this section and tax deducted at.
import:stage where imported goods were supplied.
2 Different rates for supply of oil, gas, extra high voltage tower cable, MS ‘billet; iron products etc:
Note-2: Payment for services—section 90
সা
Advisory or consultancy service
Professional service, technical:services fee, or technical assistance:fee
3. Catering, cleaning, collection and recovery, private security service,
manpower, creative media, event management, training, courier, packing
and similar service etc.
) On commission. 10%
) On total bill amount 2%
4. Media buying agency service

) On commission or fees. 10%

) On total bill amount 0.65%
lndenting commission
| 6. | Meeting fees, training fees, or honorarium
Mobile network operators, technical support service providers, etc.
| 8. | Credit rating service
| 9. | Motor garage or workshop
Private container port or dockyard service
Shipping agency commission

12. | Stevedoring/beérth operation commission/terminal or ship handling
operator
) On commission amount: 10%
) On total bill amount 5%
13. |) Transport, car rental, catering and repair and maintenance services, 5%
) Sharing economic platform. including ride sharing service, working space:
service, housing service etc.
Wheeling charge for electricity transmission
16. | Agent, distributor, agency, or channel partner etc. of mobile financial 10%
services provider
Page | 196

bank, insurance, mobile financial or service of financial institutions

If the: amount for services in serial'3 and 4 shows both commission and fees and gross bill, tax shall

be higher of (i) tax calculated on commission or fees applying relevant rate, and (ii) BxCxD-{B=Gross

bill, C=10% for'serial 3 and 2.5% for'serial 4, D=rate of'tax applicable for commission}.

Note-3: Deduction form income of non-resident—section 119
i জ্্
6. | Charge forsatlite,airime or fequency, channel broadcast | 203% |
(8 | Eventmanagementsewin i 208
Pf Gommisson
৷ আমর

) Company, fund or trust. 20%
) Others 30%.
Page| 197

» Where any capital gain arises from the transfer of any share of a company, the authority shall
not give effect of the transfer if tax ০0 such, capital gain has not been paid. . a

দ Board may issue a certificate, within 30 days from the date of receipt of application
accompanied by all the documents, for not to deduct tax or deduct tax. at lower rate per tax
treaties: or any other reasons.

14.6 TDS as minimum tax: section 163:
The following 37 heads of deduction shall be. deemed to be the minimum tax u/s 163:
en
Page | 198

Commission on govt. stamp, court fee, cartridge paper etc.
Lease property

Cigarette manufacturer manually

Shipping business of resident

Sale through public auction

Transfer of share of a non-listed company by a resident.
Collection of tax from transfer of security

Transfer of share by the shareholders of stock exchange
Collection of tax from member of ‘stock exchange
Collection of tax from. commercially playing motor'vehicle
Inland ship operation

However, tax deducted from the following sources. shall not be minimum tax:

® Under section 89 from a-contractor‘or'subcontractor of an oil company, an oil marketing company and
its dealer or agent excluding petrol pump station, company engaged in oil refinery and any company
engaged in gas transmission or distribution..

দ Under section 120 from import of good by an industrial undertakings as raw materials. except an
industrial undertaking engaged in producing cement, iron or iron product, ferro’ alloy products,
perfumes, carbonated beverage and toilet waters.

Income for which minimum tax ‘iis applicable shall be determined in regularly manner and tax:shall be

computed by using applicable rate, if tax.so calculated is higher than the minimum tax, the higher amount

shall be payable. However, income ‘from below sources shall be final settlement of ‘taxes (SRO- 253/

August 23, 2023):

1. Interest on fixed and savings 102 Person exempted from
deposits submission of return u/s
166(2)
Income from savings certificate All-natural person
Export cash subsidy All taxpayers
Minimum tax for an individual having gross receipt of Tk. 3 crore. of more, or a firm of association. of
person having gross receipts exceeding Tk. 50 lakh, or a company shall be as follows:
| Serial | Classesofassessee | Rate of minimum tax
1. Manufacturer of cigarette, bidi, chewing tobacco, | 3% of'the gross receipts
‘smokeless tobacco, or any other tobacco products
Carbonated beverage 3% of the gross receipts
Mobile phone operator 2% of the gross receipts
4. Natural person except manufacturer of cigarette, bidi, | 0.25% of the gross receipt
chewing tobacco, smokeless: tobacco, or any other
‘tobacco products:
Any other cases 0.60% of the gross receipts:
Page| 199

Rate:of minimum tax shall be 0.10% for an industrial undertaking engaged in manufacturing of goods. for
the first three years since.commencement of production. Here, gross receipt means all receipts derived
from any heads of income.

‘Where the. assessee has an income from any sources that is exempted from tax or is subject to a reduced
rate tax, the gross receipt from such source shall be shown separately, and minimum tax shall be
calculated :as-follows:

*# Minimum tax:for receipts: frorn the sources that are subject'to regular tax shall be. calculated as per’

rates ‘on gross receipt mentioned above; . a
® Minimum tax for receipts that are exempted or subjeéct'to reduced rate shall bé-calculated by.applying
rates on gross receipt as reduced in proportion to the exemption or the reduced rate of tax. _

= Minimum tax for the taxpayer shall be aggregated of the ‘tax computed for both types of receipts.
Note:

1. Tax.deducted or collected at source from the sources where minimum tax applies shall not be
adjusted against refund due for earlier year or-years or refund due for the: assessment year from any
source.

2. Where any surcharge, additional interest, additional amount etc: is payable, it shall be paid in
addition to minimum tax.

14.7 Other issues relating to TDS

Consequence of failure to deduct, collect, etc.—section 143

Person fails to deduct:or collect tax at source. or deduct at lesser rate or amount, or fails to pay deducted
tax or pay lower than tax deducted to the government, or fails to company with any other provision of this
part shall be liable (with other consequence) to pay:

(a) amount of‘tax that has not been deducted or collected;

(8) amount requires to be deducted as reduced by the amount.actually deducted;

(c) amount:-collected but not paid to the government;,

(d) a penalty up to Tk. 10 lakh for'non-compliance in respect of cases:other than mentioned above.

In addition to the above amount, person shall be liable to pay an additional amount.at 2% per month on
amount except penalty as mentioned in (d) above. calculated for the period from the date of deduction or
collection to the date of payment (however, period shall not exceed 24 months). DCT shall take necessary
action for'realization of payment:after giving reasonable opportunity: of being heard;

Person responsible for making payment or approving the payment'.or granting approval, clearance,
registration permits, as the case may be, shall be jointly or severally liable to pay taxes, penalty or
additional amount.

No realization of amount shall be made if meanwhile amount has been paid by the person from whom
deduction was due.

Certificate of tax deduction etc., section 145

Every person who deducts or collects tax:as required by the provisions of Part 7 of ITA, 2023 shall, atthe
tinie of making any payment iin relation to whichtax.has.been deducted or collected, furnish to the person
to or from whom such payment or collection has been made, a certificate to the effect that the tax has
been deducted or collected specifying therein-
Page | 200

(a) The name and TIN of the person from whom tax. has been deducted or collected.

(b) the amount deducted or collected;

(c) section reference under'which tax has been deducted

(d) the particulars of the payment; and

(e) such other particulars as may be prescribed.

Payment to Government of tax deducted: section 146

All sums deducted or collected as tax’ under ‘the provisions of Part 7 shall be paid within the prescribed

time by the person making the deduction or collection to the credit of the Government or as the Board

may direct [Please see Rule 8 of TDS Rules, 2023).

Save as provided in the Act, no person shall charge, withhold, deduct, or collect any sum, directly or

indirectly ‘as tax and where any sum is:so charged withhold, deducted or collected, it shall be paid in the

‘manner ‘provided.

Credit. of tax deducted or collected at source: section 150

Any deduction’ or collection of tax made and paid to the account of the Government in accordance with

the provisioris of this Part shall be treated as a paymient of tax of the person ‘from whose income. the

deduction or collection was made.

Credit shall be given in determining tax liability in an income year in which tax has been deducted and

collected. Where-tax.is. paid at source by a person on behalf of another person, the-credit. referred above

shall be given in determining the tax liability of that other person.

Payment of tax where no deduction is made: section 151

The tax under the Act shall be payable by the assessee direct-

(a) ‘in any case where tax has not been deducted or collected as required by, and in accordance with,
the provisions: of this' Part;

(b) ‘in any case where the amount deducted or collected is found, after regular assessment, to be less
than the tax due from the assessee to the extent of deficiency; and

(c) ‘in the case of income in respect to which no provision has been made for deduction or collection of
tax under the provisions of this Part.

Self-assessment questions:

(a) Discuss the’various'types of income from which tax is required to be deducted or collected at source
‘under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 2023.

(b) State the provisions regarding information to be furnished to the Tax Authorities in connection with
payment of ‘salary, interest, dividend, collection of tax from property, payment to nonresident,. and
other sources under the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 2023.

(c) Mention the application for final payment of tax liability under:section 163.

(d) What are. the consequences of failure. of deducting taxes in time at prescribed rates or failure of
depositing deducted taxes within time?

Page |'201

ns ee ee ক টা
eS ee an ee ae eel
SEES LEE goa 2 af fl A fa Ne agit: A eS ees টে - 4505 এট নম TION:
Zo ee ০6০০ SS ১. rf ign My le
SIS Zee LSS SS রর Se ag | ge Hamam
Chapter 15
Advance payment of tax
[Contents
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list
| 15.1 | Requirementto pay advance ৪...
দ্য টব রা পা ee eee eens
i 15.2 Computation of advance tax
freccececeec ec ere none. SD
৷ 15.3 | Payment of:advance tax by new taxpayers ;
Proccereecec orescence: 7 = আআ ৷ আদ স্সব্্্া eoeccwcewcewcnoennn .
i 15.4 Failure to pay installments of advance.tax :
| 15.5 | Credit ofadvance tax,
i 15.6 {| Levy of interest for failure to pay:advance tax :
i 15.7 Interest payable by Government on excess: payment of advance tax t
কা র্‌ ঢা cosets esses lecerecccascccsese cere :
i 15.8 Interest payable by the assessee' on deficiency in payment of:advance tax
মস 7 রো আআ aa, Sa ee cae
i 15.9 | Payment of tax on the basis of return ।
Worked Examples
Introduction |
Learning objectives
= Recognize different classes of assesses required to pay advance tax.
= Mention the time limit-and manner of payment of advance tax.
® Explain the basis and methods of computing advance tax.
® Define.the consequences: of non-payment or insufficient payment:of advance: tax.
দ Mention the situation when government will pay simple interest @ 10% to assessee.
Practical significance
Depending on. assessed or provisionally-assessed income, an asséssee may require to pay advance tax.
In some cases, the new assessée also. requires to pay advance tax. The calculation of amount, rate,
estimation and installment of advance tax are guided by the Act. The assessee shall get the credit of
Page | 202

advance tax. In case of excess or deficit payment of advance tax an assessee may receive or pay the
interest from or to the Government. Tax paid in advance shall be adjusted at the time of tax payment on
the basis of the return.
Payment of advance tax is important as failure of doing so'will make ‘the assessee being ‘assessee. in
default’. Advance, tax.is a requirement and it reduces tax burden at the end of the year. Thus, it is helpful
to the ‘assessee as a method of tax planning. Professional accountants are required to help their‘clients in
that regard.
Stop and think
Advance tax is required to pay on total income’ excluding income from agriculture and capital gain. Both
old and new taxpayers are required to pay advance tax if they fulfill the threshold limit set by tax law. Do
you'think how advance payment of tax is made?
Working context
In ‘corporate sectors, advance payment of taxes is very common as in many:cases income exceeded the
threshold limit of Tk. 400,000. In some: casés, the accountants are asking for advice on how and when the
advance. taxes should be paid. The service for estimation and calculation of advance tax is required by
some assessee. Chartered Accountants can provide the: service to their ‘clients relating to payment of
advance: tax:so that the clients can avoid any penalty for non-compliance of tax law in this regard.
Detailed knowledgé. about the payment of advance tax in compliance with tax law can help accountants
to'support their clients ‘significantly.
Syllabus links
You will also meet this area of taxation at advance stage..
Examination context
Exam requirements.
In the éxarhination, candidates may be required to:
দ Define the requirement of advance payment of tax.
দ Demonstrate how the computation, estimation and payment procedures of advance tax aré
made. :
2 Describe the consequences of payment or not payment of advance tax.
« Identify different classes of assesses: required to pay advance tax.
2 Mention the time and installments of payment of advance tax. _
« |llustrate the application of 75% ‘test to compute-simple interest in case of deficit.
Question practice
For question practice on these topics, go to the suggested answers covering this chapter.
Examiner's: comments on how'students should tackle questions
Cahdidates 7660 to rememibér the methods of computing advance tax, basis of advance ‘tax: 75% test,
computation of’simple interest @:10%.on deficit.amount of tax.and other complexities. In practical problem
Page |'203

৪0.০৪৪56 ‘study level calculation of advance tax may be asked for'with different dates:when installment falls
‘due.
415.0 ADVANCE PAYMENT OF TAX
Section overview
=> Anassessee, both old and new, may require to pay advance tax.
=> Advance taxes are paid on income excluding income from. agriculture ard capital gain.
> The assessee:shall get:the.credit:for advance tax.
=> Ifthe amount:of advance tax paid along with TDS is less than 75% of due tax, assessee is required
to pay'simple interest @10% on such deficit.
> Government will also pay simple interest @10% if advance tax for any reason exceeds due tax.
> Ifthe asséssee fails to pay advance tax, he will be the assessee in default.
15.1 Requirement to pay advance payment of tax: Section 154
Except as provided in section 154(2), tax.shall be payable by an assessee during each financial Year by
way of advance payment of tax, hereinafter referred to as ‘advance tax’, in accordance'with the provisions.
hereafter made in this Part, if the total income of the assessee for the latest income: year in respect of
which he has been assessed by way of regular assessment, or has been provisionally assessed under
the Act, exceeds Tk. 6,00,000..
Nothing in section 154(1) shall apply in the following cases:
(a) Taxpayers earns not more than Tk. 800,000 from cultivation of land only;
(b) Income classifiable. under the. heads ‘capital gains’ and ‘orie time income’ on which advance tax is
payable.
15.2 Computation of advance tax: Section 155
The amount of advance tax payable by an assessee in a financial year shall be the amount’ equal to the
tax payable on his.total income of the latest income year as assessed on regular basis:or provisionally, ৪5
the case may be, as reduced by the amount of tax required to be deducted or collected at source: in
accordance with the preceding provisions of Part 7.
Advance tax shall be payable in four equal instalments (each for 25% of the payable amount) on the
fifteenth day of September, December, March and June of the finaricial ‘year-for' which the tax is payable.
In case, taxpayer failed to make full or part of any instalments, he:shall pay nextinstalments:upon adjusting
the earlier unpaid amount. Where taxpayer estimate: that the advance. tax amount would be lower in an
income year, then he. shall submit estimates with DCT and make necessary adjustment: of the advance
tax payment based on estimates.
15.3 Payment of advance tax by néw taxpayers: Section 156
If the income of an assessee who has not assessed previously, exceeds Tk. 600,000 in the income. year
immediately following the assessment year, he shall before the 15" of June of every financial year submit
an estimated total income and advance ‘tax payable. to the DCT, and pay instalments as per manner
prescribed ‘in section 155(2).
Page | 204

15.4 Failure to pay installments of advance tax: Section 157
Where, an assessee who is required to pay’ advarice tax fails to pay any installment of such. tax,. as
originally computed or, as the case may be, estimated, on the due date, he shall be deemed to be an
assessee in default in respect of such installment.

15.5 Credit of advance tax: Section 158.
Any sum, other than a penalty or interest, paid by or recovered from an assessee as advance tax, shall
be treated as a payment of tax if respect of the inconié. of the. period‘which would be:the income year for
an assessment for the year next-following the year in which it was payable and shall be given credit.for in
the assessment of tax payable by the assessee.

15.6 Levy of interest:for failure to pay advance tax: Section 160
Where, in respect of an assessee who is required to pay advance tax, it is found in. the course of regular
assessment that advance tax has not:been paid in accordance with the provisions of this Part, there shall
be added, without prejudice to the consequences of the assessee being in default under section 157, to
the tax as determined on the basis of such assessment, simple interest thereon calculated atthe rate and
for the period specified in section 162.
15.7 Interest payable by Government on excess payment of advance tax: Section 161
The Government shall pay simple interest at 10% perannum on the amount by which the aggregate sum
of advance. tax paid during a financial year’exceeds ‘the. amount of tax payable by him as determined on
régular assessment.

The period for which interest shall be the first day of July of the year of assessment to the date of regular
assessment in respect of the income: of that year or a period of two years from the said first day of July,.
whichever is shorter.

15.8 Interest payable by the: assessee. on deficiency in payment of advance tax: Sec 162
Where, in any’ financial year, an assessee has paid advance-tax on the basis of his own estimate and the
advance. tax so paid together with the tax,deducted at.source, ifany, under this Partis less than 75%, of
the amount of tax payable by him as determined on regular assessment, the assessee shall pay, in
addition to the balance:of tax payable by him, simple interest @, 10% per annum:on the amount. by which
the tax so paid and deduction falls short of 75% of the assessed tax. Interest shal be 50% higher if
‘assessee failed to.submit return on or before the Tax Day.

The period to compute interest-shall be the period from the first day of July of the.assessment year to the
date of tegular assessment of a period of two years from the said first day-of July of the assessment year
whichever is shorter..
Notwithstanding anything contained in sections. 162(1) and (2) where-

(a) Where tax is paid under section 173, or

(6) provisional assessment has been made Under section 185 but regular assessment has not been

made, the simple interest shall be calculated in accordance with the following provisions-
Page: |'205

i. up tothe date on which tax under-section 173 or provisionally assessed, was: paid;
ii. thereafter, such simple interest shall be calculated on the amount’ by which the tax so paid
falls short of the said assessed tax.
Where, as a résult of appeal, revision or reference, the amount on which interest. was payable. under
section 162(1) has been reduced, the: amount of interest payable: shall be reduced accordingly and the
excess interest paid, if any, shall be refunded together with the amount of tax that is refundable.
Illustration
For the: assessment year 2021-22, an assessee has latest.assessed income of Tk. 1,000,000. But he
wants to pay advance tax for the year on the basis of his own estimate that amounts to Tk. 800,000.
Regular tax rate is 30%. Regular assessment for the assessment year 2021-22 was completed on
February 28, 2022 resulting Tk. 1,200,000 profit:including Tk: 80,000 from capital, gain and Tk. 220,000
from agficultural income.
Calculate. the amount:of excess or shortfall in payment of advance tax and explain: the consequences for
the same..
Income. eligible to apply advance ‘tax: as per regular assessment is Tk. 900,000 (Tk.. 1,200,000 - Tk.
80,000:— Tk. 220,000), excluding capital gain and agricultural income.
Tax liability as per regular assessment (30% of taka 900,000) Tk. 270,000
Advance tax paid (30% of taka 800,000) Tk._240,000
Shortfall Tk. 30,000
75% test: The deficit or shortfall is required to be tested for charging simple interest.
75% of tax liability as per regular assessment (75% of taka 270,000) Tk. 2;02,500
Advance tax paid actually. Tk. 240;000
Shortfall in case of 75% test nil
Consequence: In this case, the assessee is required to pay the shortfall of Tk. 30,000 only. There is no
question of charging simple interest as 75% is covered.
15.9 Payment of tax on the basis of return: Section 173]
Every person who is réquired to file a return u/s 166, 172, 175, 191, 193 or 242 shall. pay the amount of
tax payable on the basis. of such return as reduced by the amount of any tax deducted from his income
Under Part.7 a:advance tax on or before:the return filed.
A person, who without reasonable cause fails to pay. tax as required under this section, shall be deemed
to be an assessee in default.
Page | 206

Advance tax: Payable
By
“Ifthe preset a “tthe latest
a income likely to SS i assessed উহ
টক exceed Tk. income. Oo
\. ৫০০,০০০ \ exceeds
Yes ত্য No Yes SN OU No
Advance tax: No advance Advance tax No advance
payable Tax Payable payable Tax Payable
Does advance উট Advance:tax = Tax paid on'the basis of last
Ke tax paid plus assessed income:-— TDS, if any:
\ TDS 75% of , ৮4
tax determined? / চরে
রে Ie a Does advance NN
০ a ° tax: paid plus TDS oS
~ >75% of tax a
No simple interest, simply the “determined?
unpaid amount oftax-will be, paid তব ,
- Yes ; No
Assessee, will pay the: unpaid amount Y
of tax plus simple interest @ 10% if No penalty, simply the balance of
such amount falls short than 75% of tax will be. paid
assessed tax. :
Assessee will pay the unpaid amount:of
tax plus simple interest @ 10% if'such
amount falls short than 75% of assessed
Worked examples and solutions
Page |'207

Worked example 1

DCT did the assessment for an individual assessee: for the assessment year 2023-24 computing total

income of Tk. 20,50,000. Asséssee. paid AIT Tk. 1,00,000. Last assessed income of the assessee forthe

assessment year 2022-23 was Tk. 20,00,000. Compute remaining tax to be paid by the.assessee along

with simple interest'for short-payment of advance tax.

Solution 1:

Tax and.simple interest:calculation

On 1st Tk. 3,50,000--------------------------nil,

On next Tk: 1,00,000-------@5%-----------5,000

On next Tk. 3,00,000-------@10%--------30;000

On next Tk. 4,00,000-------@15%--------60,000

On next Tk. 5,00,000-------@20%----- 1,00,000

On balance Tk.4,00,000----@25%-----1,00,000

Total tax= 2,95,000

Calculation of simple interest:

75% of Tk. 2;95,000 comes:at Tk. 2,21,250

Less: AIT paid-------------------- Tk. 1,00,000

Shortfall to qualify 75%= ‘Tk. 1,21,250

Simple. interest @10% = Tk. 12,125 [say for 1 year]

Remaining tax to. be paid Tk. 1,95,000 + Simple interest Tk. 12,125. Total Tk. 2,07,125

Self-assessment question

1. Discuss briefly the provisions. of the Income Tax Act, 2023:with regard to the following:

(a) The.assessee who:are required to pay:advance tax. and the nature of incomes which are to be
leftout of consideration for this purpose;

(b) The basis on which advance payments of tax should be calculated for old assessee and new
assessee, and the:due dates of payment thereof;

(০) The.interest payable by Government on excess payment and interest chargeable to assessee
on'shortfall, in respect of advance payment of tax.

2. In What situation, government'will pay interest'to asséssee?

ABC & ০০ Ltd. calculated advance tax for the income year 2022-23 as per the latest assessed.

income of taka 1,000,000. Regular assessment'for'the assessment’year 2021-22’ was completed

on June 30, 2022 and profit assessed amounts to taka 700,000. Applicable tax rate is say 30%.

Calculate simple interest payable by the. government (if any) on excess payment of advance tax.

Page | 208

SASS <a PE QNE Se ee ey Gade fem hey Ss 7
WS ooh ও REN ২১২২ সস ্ লো

Chapter 16

Return of income
[Contents

Introduction

Examination context

Topic list
| 16. 1. Requirement to file return of income eee
462 General rules for filing of return EE
46.4 | Due date of submission of return of income ee
165. Obligation to file return under self-assessment mode না
“46.6 | Regarding payment of income tax and surcharge on or before the date of filingretum
46.7 | Computation of tax in case of filing of return after tax day ৷!
"188 Filing of assets and liabilities statement —_—E———E——_—E—_—_—_—
“46.9 | Filing of life style statement ees
16.10 | Return of withholding tax EE
46.12 | Notice for filing return ee
16.13 | Filing of revised return in respect of normal i
746.15 | Production of other information :
© 46-76 Return or

Page |'209

| Introduction
Learning objectives

দ Explain the requirement to file return of income

দ State:the procedure of filing the. return.

= Identify the:forms and'documents to be submitted with the return of income

= Mention the information required ‘to be provided. with return

® Prescribe different return forms
Practical significance
Every person: shall file or caused to be’ filed a return of his income or the income of any other
person in respect of which he. is assessable. to. tax. There, are some. rules and guidelines. ‘for
submission of return. The total procedure covering the time limitation for submitting the return,
documents: and information to be. provided with the. return of income. and duly filled return need ‘to
have:the declaration and authentication.
Production of accounts and documents, statements of assets and liabilities; income statement,
statément of individual regarding particulars of life style are ‘the esséntial elements in. casé of
submission of return.
Learning of income tax is ‘finally reflected in submitting the form of return Where income from
different heads is reported and net tax liability is computed. This. is the reporting of assesses to the.
income tax authority disclosing relevant information.
Stop and think
Do you realize that submission of return is an obligatory responsibility for every assessee by any
‘means? Do-you know that the production of supporting accounts, forms and documents.and timely
submission of return'with authenticated declaration about the true information are very significant?
Working context
In case of'submission of return, the accountants ean guide their clients howto prepare their return’
with all supporting documents. Accountants should have the: clear Understanding about the legal
‘procedures for submission of return.
Detailed understanding about.the rules and procedures for'filing return give the opportunity to the
accountants ‘in practice to help their as tax advisers.
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are very important 00500091715, accountants, tax advisers ৪70.
even for the assessee at large for compliance with the tax rules and procedures’ regarding
submission of return.

[Examination context
Exam requirements
In the examination, students may be. required ‘to:
Define:the requirement to‘file return of income.

Page | 210

Mention the due date of:submission of return.

Identify the forms, documents.and information to be ‘submitted with return.

Define the term of IT 10B and IT 10BB in case of filing return.

Question practice

For question practice on these topics, go to the-suggested answers ‘covering this chapter:

Examiner's comments on how students should tackle questions

Students have historically prepared well for this area.of the syllabus.

16.0 RETURN AND STATEMENT

Section overview

=> An assessee shall file or:cause to be filed a return of incortie:in the prescribed form;
=> The return of income shall be signed and verified;
> Return shall be submitted within Tax Day; _
=> The DCT can serve notice u/s 172/212 for filing return if not submitted within Tax Day;
> The return for individual assessee shall be accompanied by IT-10B.and IT-1 OBB;
> Form of return for individual assessee.and company is different.. Moreover, different return
form is applicable for different types of assessee. A separate form for spot assessment
also available:
> Tax Day is different for company ‘and other than company;
16.1 Requirement to file return of income: Section 166
(1) Every person shall file.a return with the DCT for the relevant income year, if-

(a) if his total income during the income year exceeded the maximum amount which is not
chargeable to tax under the Act:

(b) 1176 was:assessed to tax ‘for'any one of the three years immediately preceding that income:
year,

(c) _ if the person is a company, shareholder director or a shareholder employee of a company,
a firm, a partner of a firm, AOP, Non-resident company having PE in Bangladesh, NGO,
MCO, Co-operative society an employee holding the position of executive or manager of a.
business, an employee of the Govt. an authority, or a non-resident having a. permanent
establishment in. Bangladesh;

(d) if the person, not being an institution established solely for charitable purpose,. has an
income during the relevant income year which is subject to tax exemption or lower tax rate
under Chapter 1 of Part.6;

(6) any person registrable as a taxpayer under section 261;

(f) person required to furnish proof:of submission:of return u/s 264.

However, return submission is not mandatory for any educational institution which is a
primary or pre-primary school or government secondary or higher secondary: school
‘teaching in Bangali, or which is a MPO educational institution and which does not have an
English version ofthe curriculum, a public university, Bangladesh Bank, local authorities,
statutory public authority-or jurisdiction, which has no income other than funds and interest
income. received from the Government, any entity established or constituted by or under

Page |'211

any law for the time being in force which has no income other than funds from the
Government. [Section 166 (2)].
16.2 General rules for filing of return: Section 169
(1). The return. shall be furnished in the prescribed form setting forth therein such particulars and
information including the prescribed schedules, statements, accounts, appendices. or
documents.
(2) The. following documents shall be attached with the return of the compariy or any person.
deriving income from execution of long-term. contracts, namely:
(i) audited financial statements;
(ii) criteria prescribed by the Board, time to time, the proof of definite-standard; and
(iii) a separate calculation sheet explaining the difference between the profit and loss shown inthe
financial statements and the income shown in the return.
(3) In the case of any such entity having international transactions in any income year, a statement
relating to international transactions under section 208 shall 89:50 with the return.
(4).Any non-resident Bangladeshi may file his return of income along with proof of payment of tax
on the basis of such return, to his:nearest.Barigladesh. Mission.and thé Mission will issue a receipt
of such return with official.seal and send the return to the Board.
16.3 Signature and verification of return: Section 169(5)
Thé return of income shall be. signed and verified-
(i) in the case of an individual, by the individual himself; where the individual is absent from
Bangladesh, by the individual concerned or by some person duly authorized by. him in this behalf;
and when the individual is méntally incapacitated from attending to his affairs, by his guardian or by
any other person competent to act on his behalf;
(ii) in the case of Hindu undivided family, by the Karta, and, where the Karta is absent from
Bangladesh or is mentally incapacitated from attending to his affairs by any other adult member of
such family;
(iii) in the case of a company or local authority, by the principal officer thereof;
(iv) in the case of a firm, by any’partner thereof, not being a minor;
(v) in the case of any-other association, by any member of the association or the principal officer
thereof; and
(vi) in the case of any other’person, by that person or by some person competent to act on. his
behalf:
Page | 212

16:4 Due date of submission of return of income: Section 171

The return of income shall be'filed within tax day —

Bank, Insurance and other non-banking Financial Institution* 15th September

A. company’ which is a subsidiary ‘or holding company, branch, | Within 151 of the 7th month

representative or liaison office of a parent company incorporated | from the end ofthe. income

outside Bangladesh if such company requires to follow’ a different | year

financial yearfor the purpose of consolidation of its accounts with the

parent company”

All other company* 15!" January

Other than company* 30!" November

Individual taxpayer never filed return previously 30!" June following the end

of the: income. year

Individual taxpayer residing outside Bangladesh for higher education Within 90" day fromthe

or on deputation or employment under lien or residing outside date of his return of

Bangladesh with ৪ valid visa and permit for the purpose of earning Bangladesh

money.
* The next working day following the tax day if the day is a public holiday. [Section 2(23)]
16. 5 Obligation to file return under self-assessment mode: Section 170
(1).All such persons ‘subject to statutory obligation. to file return under section. 180:shall file return in self-:
‘assessment mode under section 180:
Provided that one person companies, banks, insurance and financial institutions other than companies
and individuals leaving Bangladesh can‘file normal returns.
(2) For the purposes of this section, “normal return” means a return filéd for asséssment. of tax under
section 183 or 184.
16. 6 Regarding payment of income ‘tax and surcharge on or before the. date of filing return:
Section 173
(1) Every person who is required to file a return under'section 166, 172, 175, 191, 193. or 212 shall. pay,
the tax payable on or before the date of filing the return.
(2) The tax payable shall be calculated in the following manner, where:
A’= On the basis of return or the provisions of sub-section (5) of section 163 tax payable by the taxpayer,
whichever is higher;
B = Tax at source of advariceé tax as.per the provisions of Part 7.
(3) The amount paid under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to have been paid as tax payable by the
taxpayer after assessment of regular tax.
(4) If any person, without reasonable cause, fails to pay. the tax payable under sub-section (1), he shall
be deemed to be an assessee in default.

Page |'213

16.7 Computation of tax in case of filing of return after tax day: Section 174
If any: taxpayer fails to file the return within the tax day under section 166, the taxpayer shall,
without prejudice to the liability arising under other provisions of this Act, be liable to pay tax in
following manner:
C=Ax (1x 4% x.B), where —
C =Total amount of tax payable, if —
i: taxpayer files return on any day-after tax day; or -
ii. the tax authority assesses the ‘taxpayer's tax on any day subsequent to the tax day,
A= The total amount of tax the taxpayer‘would have paid if he had filed the return within the. tax.
day, provided that — a BS
i. the tax exempted income:shall be includéd in the total income and shall be 'taxed:at'the
regular rate; and
ii. it shall not include.any penalty or tax imposed.or levied under'this Act other than minimum
tax, surcharge and simple interest,
B = Number of months determined as under, namely —
i. number of months after the tax day has passed'which maximum 24 month; and
ii. any fraction of the month:shall also be counted as 1 month.
16.8 Filing of assets and liabilities statement: Section 167
(1) ‘Subject to other provisions of this section,. every. individual taxpayer shall compulsorily file asséts
and liabilities if such person -
1 owner of total assets of more than BDT 40 (forty) lakh as on the last date of the income year; or
2 own a motor véhicle.at any. time during ‘the income year; or
3 has made an investment'in a house property or-an apartment in the city corporation area; or
4 owns any asset abroad at any’time during the income year; or
5 a shareholder becomes a director‘of'a company:
Provided that, subject to compliance with the. provisions of this sub-section, all public servants shall
compulsorily file the assets and liabilities.
(2) Every résident'Bangladeshi individual taxpayer-shall file in his returfi all assets and liabilities situated
in Bangladesh and outside Bangladesh.
(3) Every non-resident Bangladeshi individual taxpayer shall file in his return all assets and liabilities
situated in Bangladesh..
(4) Every such individual taxpayer who is net a Bangladeshi ‘shall file in his return all assets and
liabilities. situated in Bangladesh.
(5) Even if the filing of.a statement of assets: and liabilities Under sub-section (1) is not mandatory for
an individual taxpayer, he may voluntarily file-a statement of assets and liabilities.
(6) Assets and liabilities statement. of an individual taxpayer includes. assets and liability of spouse or’
minor childrén if they'do rot have TIN.
(7) The DCT may; by notice.in writing, require any person ‘to furnish a statement.of asséet.and liability
‘in any income year, if
Page | 214

(৪) the said person did not file the.statement of assets and liabilities in the relevant income year; or
(b) assets and liability statement appear to be required for determining the tax liability. of the said
taxpayer‘for the relevant income year.
16.9 Filing of life style statement: Section 168
(1) Every individual taxpayer shall compulsorily file'life style statement.if such person -
(a) the income of the said person exceeds BDT'5 (five) lakh in the relevant income year;
(b) the person owns a motor vehicle at any timé during the relevant incomé year
(c) the person derives any income from the business;
(0). the person becomes a-shareholder director of a company; or — ৰা
(6) the person invests in house property‘or apartment Within the: city corporation area in the' relevant
income year.
(2) The DCT may, by notice in writing, require:any person ‘to furnish a:statement of life style in any'income
year, if -
(a) the said person did not file the statement-of life style. in the relevant income year; or
(b) 16 style:statement appear to be required for'determining the tax liability of the. said taxpayer for the
relevant income year.
16.10 Return of withholding tax: Section 177 + Section 186
(1) The following persons shall file a return of tax deducted or collected under the provisions. of part 7 in
such form as may be: prescribed by the Board::
(a) a company other than a.local authority, autonomous body, any'authority of the Government, a primary
or pre-primary school teaching in Bengali, a government secondary or higher secondary school, or any
educational institution subject toa monthly payment order:(MPO);
(b) firm; (¢) AOP: (0) private hospitals: (6) clinic (f) diagnostic center.
(2) Return under sub-section (1) -
(a) shall submitted under the concern jurisdiction of the DCT
(8). ‘the relevant details and information and schedules, statements, accounts, appendices or
documents shall be submitted in the prescribed form;
(০) signed-and executed to be done in the manner described in sub-section (5) of section. 169;
(3) The return under sub-section (1):shall be filed at‘the following times, namely’ -
(a) the applicable return for the preceding month shall be filed by the 150 day of every month; and
(b) the: next‘working day where'the 15" day of any month is a weekly or public: holiday;
(4) ‘The DCT may extend the time for filing the return under this section by not:more than 15 days from
the due date or up to the last:day of the said month.
(5) The Board may, by notification in the Official Gazette; prescribe the area, form and manner of filing
returns in electronic readable or computer readable medium.
The DCT may select a number of withholding tax returns with the approval of the Commissioner
of taxes for audit and may take action under Sections 143, 144 and 266. No such return shall be
Page |'215

‘selected for audit-after the expiry of 4 years. যা the end of the year in which the return was filed.
[Section 186]
16.11 Concurrent jurisdiction: Section 178
Board may, by general ora special order in writing, direct that in respect of all or any proceedings
relating to receiving of'return or revised return and issuance of acknowledgement thereof, the powers
and functions of'the DCT shall be concurrently exercised by such other’ authority as may be:specified by.
the Board.
16.12 Notice for filing return: Section 172
The DCT may, at any time after expiry of the date specified in section 171, direct-any person, by a
notice in writing, to file a return of his:income, if -
(a). the person is required to file a return under section 166; or’
(b) the total income of such person is chargeable to tax in the relevant income year.
(2) Subject to sub-section 1, the return shall be filed within such period specified in the. notice,
not being less:than'21 days or within'such extended period as'‘the DCT may allow.
16.13 Filing of revised return in respect of normal return: Section 175
(1) According to section 166 or 212 "If any omission or incorrect:statement is noticed in the return after
the filing of normal return, the revised return shall be filed without reduction of any tax.
(2) In cases Where the assessment has not been completed, the revised return shall 09060 at least 6
months before the last date of making the assessment order for the relevant:assessment year or before
the date of first hearing, whichever is earlier
16.14 Production of accounts and documents: Section 179
(1) The DCT may, by notice in writing, require an assessee. who has filed a return under section
166, 175 or 176, or to whom a notice has been issued, the return of any’such taxpayer as may be
considered necessary for the purpose of audit proceedings or assessment of tax, may cause to
produce: such record, books, accounts, statements and documents, information or electronic
récords, not being éarlier than 3 years prior to'the income year.
2) DCT may issue notice’ for production of any record, statement, account, document, information or
electronic record of any part thereof by electronic means:
(3) The account, statement, document, information or electronic record should be submitted before the
specified date: mentioned in the. notice.
Page | 216

16.15 Production of other information as per different sections at the time. of submission of return
or in other circumstances
Monthly withholding tax: return Within 15 day of next month
15" September, December, March & June
Corporate tax return 15". day of the 7 month following the end of the income
year, or the 75" day of September following the end of
income year where’the said 15" day falls. before’the 15"
day of September
Statement of international transaction Submit with, corporate tax return
Conditions:
* For monthly withholding tax return DCT may extend time up to 15 days..
* Information regarding salary to be attached with the WHT return in‘ September .
* Information regarding submitting tax return by employees to be attached ‘with the return in April.
16.16 Return Form
(T-11GA.2016—For individual taxpayers
IT-11GHA.2016—For Company taxpayers
IT-11CHA 2016—For taxpayers other than individual and company
IT-11GAGA—For spot assessment
(T-10B—Statement of assets, liabilities and expenditure.
IT-10BB—Statement of lifestyle
Page |'217

SSS CARES SSN Cen af ee ro par পপ 2

RCO oe SNES টে US Recta, হে দি 2
SSS ২২ ৯ : 2S eS os Se ees are Soe নন ডা .
Chapter 17

Assessment
Contents
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list

17.1 Introduction to assessment /
, 17.2 Provisional assessment u/s 185 !
, 17.3 Assessment on the basis of correct return u/s 183.
, 17.4 Self-assessment u/s 180
[১ ১০০এএনএএউযউনএস তত পরত তন তা আশপাশ মি পক পরশ E সস ৷৷্৯২ে৷ৎ৯ ২ স্্দ্ ৷
, 17.5 Return. process u/s 181 :
। 17.6 Consequences of filing of incomplete return u/s 176 E
ATT | Audit u/s 182 /
17.8 | Minimum tax on income of certain person u/s 163 a:
, 17.9 Minimum tax on gross receipts u/s 163
, 17.10 Spot'assessment u/s 195. ।
, 17.11 Best judgment assessment u/s 184 ;
, 17.12 Various specialized assessments |
; 17:13 7; Limitation for assessment u/s 197 :
; 17:14. ; Barto question assessment u/s 196 :
Page | 218

|| Introduction

Learning objectives

দ |llustrate the various types of assessment.

2 Identify the conditions, rules and procedure for different.classes of assessment.

দ Define the limitation for'assessment.

Practical significance

Assessments of income arid tax liability are very significant for every.assessee. There are different
types of assessment such as provisional assessment, assessment'on the basis of correct return,
self-assessment, minimum tax on income of certain persons, spot’ assessment, best judgment
assessment ete.

Even there are various specialized/emergency assessments such as assessment in case of
discontinued business, person leaving Bangladesh, deceased. pérson, income escaping
assessment etc. So, there is no way to.avoid tax assessment. if there is taxable income.

For every classes of'assessment there.are either some conditions, rules-and procedures specified
forassessee and/or for tax.authorities.

Stop and think

Did you realize how important is the assessment for any assessee either individual or company?
Do. you think nobody can avoid tax.assessment in any way if he.is required to be assessed under
tax law?

Working context.

Assessment of tax is very important for every assessee. An assesseeé.must require to be assessed.
in any way..Accountants have a-great role to provide the technical assistance to their client in case.
of assessment. As there are many conditions, rules and procedures for different types of
assessments, accountants’ support sometime very significant to.complete the assessment of their
clients.

Many clients are requiring the support for correct assessment from accountants in every year.
Detailed knowledge of accountants on conditions, rules and procedures for different assessments.
has'the importance in case of required support for clients’ tax.assessment in many ways.
Syllabus links

The ‘topics ‘covered in this chapter have ‘the significance for professional study as you can utilize:
the knowledge throughout the application level and case study and also in your practical life.
[Examination context |
Exam requirements.

In the examination, students may be required to:

2 Identify the different types. of assessment.

দর Define the provisional assessment.

Page |'219

রে Characterize the assessment on the basis of correct:return.
দর Define the assessment under which tax liability shall be deemed as finally discharge tax
liabilities.
n Define the specialty of self-assessment.
5 Recognize the rules and procedures for spot assessment.
n Illustrate the assessment after hearing and best: judgment:assessment.
5 Define the assessment of partnership firms.
a Typify the assessment in case of change in constitution of a firm and constitution of new
successor firm.
মম Typify the assessment in case of succession to business otherwise: than..on death and
assessment of discontinued business.
দল Define the assessment in case of partition of Hindu undivided family.
রে Characterize the assessment in case: of persons leaving Bangladesh, deceased person and
income escaping ‘assessment.
2 Identify the limitation for doing assessment.
Question practice
For question practice on these topics, go to the:suggested answers covering this chapter-..
17:0 ASSESSMENT
Section overview
> There dre different: classes of assessment of total income and tax payable..
‘> The conditions, rules and methods of various assessments are different.
> Itis not easy for any person to escape assessment:who is required to be assessed.
> There afe certain limitations of assessment.
17.1 Introduction to assessment
sometimes, the :computation;of income, sometimes the.determination ‘of the:amount of tax:payable.
and-Sometimes.thewhole.procedure!laid:down in'the:Act for imposing liability upon the:tax’ payer
[C:-T:V:Khemchand Rahdas: 1938:I:T:R:441;'416(PC)]: The:meanhing to’be:assigned ০:06 word
been used. [A’N.:Lakshman'Shenoy:V.1.T. 0.9581. T.R'275, '941(S€)].
17.2 Provisional assessment: Section 185
(1) The DCT may assess:the provisional tax on the total income of the taxpayer in any income year.
(2) Provisional assessment shall be made at the following times, namely’-
(i) the return is to be filed at any time during the relevant tax year; or
(ii) the return not filed on the tax day or ary day before'the tax day for the relevant assessment
year.
(3) Provisional assessment:shall be prepared on the basis of the following matters, namely -
(i):in the:case mentioned in.clause (a) of sub-section (2), on'the basis.of return.and accounts & documents,
if any;
Page | 220

(ii) in the case mentioned in clause. (b) of ‘sub-section. (2),. any readily available information or material

and at the best judgement of the DCT

(4) In making a provisional assessment under this section, the DCT:shall proceed as follows -

a) — rectify any arithmetical errors in the return, accounts and documents;

b) on the basis: of the information available from the return, accounts:and documents, allow

any loss set off and carry forward or carry forward of depreciation allowance.

(5) For the purposes of payment and recovery, the tax.as determined to be payable upon.

provisional assessment shall have effect as if it'were determined Upon regular assessment.

(6) In computing the tax‘payable under this section; the following amount’shall be credited, namely

(i) any tax deducted or collected at:source and paid to the Government; and

(ii) any paid advance tax.

(7) Where any amount is paid against the tax claim by way of provisional assessment, tax credit

for that:amounit shall be given in computing the ‘tax payable under regular‘assessment for the same.

tax year.

(8) Nothing done or suffered by reason or in consequence of any provisional assessment made:
under this section shall prejudice the determination on merit of any issue which may. arise in
the course of regular assessment.

(9) There:shall be no right of appeal against a provisional assessment under this ‘section.

17.3 Assessment on the basis of-correct'return: Section 183

(1)-Any taxpayer -

(a) if any return or revised return is filed or is liable to be filed under ‘section 166, 212 or 175; or

(b) if taxable under‘sub-section (12) of section 182; or

(c) if-any tax or other sum payable under the provisioris of this Act

The DCT may, under this section, assess the tax or ahy‘other amount on the basis of the relevant

returns or'documents.

(2) Where. a return 018 reviséd return has been filed and the DCT is satisfied, without requiring

the presence of the assessee or the production of any evidence, he shall assess the total income

of the.assessee and determine. the tax payable,. subject‘to the following conditions:

a) such return shall be filed on or before the date specified in section 1/7 1;.

b) the amount of tax payable shall be paid on or before the date on'which the return is. filed;

০) such return does not.show any loss or lesser income than the last assessed income,

0) if tax is-détermined on the basis of:such. return does not result in refund; and.

e) such return shall mention. Taxpayer's Identification Number;

(3) Where the DCT is not.satisfied without requiring the presence ofthe person who filed the return
or'the production of evidence, the DCT shall give notice to the person to the effect that: -
(a) shall appear before the DCT, in person:or by an authorized representative, on the:date:and time
‘specified in the notice; or . .
(b) to submit nécessary'evidence in support:of thé return mentioned in the notice:
Page |'221

(4) Where the taxpayer-complies with the notice given under:sub-section (3), the DCT shall initiate
the assessment process.
(5) The DCT may require further hearing or necessary evidence during the assessment
proceedings of the taxpayer and in such case the notice shall specify the matters to be heard and
the consequences arising out of failure:to comply.
(6) The DCT shall not disallow any expenditure shown by: the taxpayer without giving:an opportunity
of hearing.
(7) The DCT shall, after considering the evidence presented at the hearing, issue an order for
assessment of tax in writing or by specified electronic means and shall inform the:said order to the
taxpayer within 30 days.
(8) If the taxpayer fails to comply with the notice given under sub-section (3) or (5), the DCT may
determine the tax based on best judgement under section 184.
17.4.Self-assessment: Section 180
(1) A self-assessment return filed by a person under this section for any tax year shall be deemed to
have automatically completed the assessment.of his income, tax and other liability under this. Act,
if the return -
(a) submitted in: compliance with all provisions mentioned in section 169; and.
(b)tax payment made by complying with all provisions mentioned in section 173 and 174.
Provided that any return filed without complying with the provisions mentioned in section 169 shall
৮6 deemed to be a “normal return".
(2) After filing the return under'sub-section (1) if taxpayer obseived in the return filed by him -
(a) income. shown; or
(b) tax exemption or credit claimed; or
(c) for any other reason,
If the tax’payable under this Act has not been correctly-calculated. or the correct amount has not beéri
‘paid, he may file a revised return stating the reasons in a written statement:
Provided that the taxpayer shall pay the tax and other sums, which were under-calculated or under-
paid before the filing of such revised return, and shall pay simple interest at the rate of 5% per month
on such amount.
(3) Under sub-section (2):filing of revised return cannot'be submitted in the following fields -.
(a)-after the end of 180 days from the date of filing the return under sub-section (1);
(6):after filing the revised return for the first time; or
(c) the original return is' to be selected for audit under section 182.
(4) In respect of a return filed under sub-section (1), no question is'to be raised'to the source of initial
capital investment in case:of new assessee showing new business, if taxpayer -
a) income. must be shown which.is not.exeripted from tax and more than tax exemption ceilirig;
b) income not less than 20% of initial capital;
০) pays tax calculated at the regular tax rate and other applicable sums:on or before the filing of the
return;
0) submits evidence regarding the shown existence business;
e) filed within the relevant tax day. of the relevant tax year; and
f) mention in writing that.the.return filed is nota due: return
Page | 222

(5) The provisions of sub-section (4)-shall apply in, such case, the amount of initial capital shown in 4
consecutive income years following the first income year shall not be less than the capital shown in
the first income year and in any income year of the. 4 consecutive income years following the first
income year. If the ‘amount of capital shown is less than the capital shown in the first income: year,
such deficiency shall be'treated as "income.from other sources” of the taxpayer 'in that income year.
17.5 Return process: Section 181
(1) The DCT shall process the “self-assessment return” or revised return filed under section 180 in the
following manner, namely -
(a) any mathematical error in ‘the. return filed or in the said return or if any’ incorrect claim is observed in
the light of any ‘information contained in any statement or documents filed with the return, the same. shall
be computed as. adjusted income;
(b). the tax payable under this Act and any other sum shall be calculated on the basis of clause (a); and
(0) shall ‘determine the tax payable or refundable by providing advance tax paid includirig tax at source
and credit of tax paid under this Act.
(2) If as a result of the return process, the amount of income, tax or other ‘significant ‘sum shown in the
“self-assessment return” or revised return filed under section 180 differs, the DCT shall issue a written
notice to the taxpayer as under, which -
(a) inform the tax payer of the. difference amounting to the computation of income, tax, refundable tax or
otherrelated matters as:a result of the return process attached to the notice; রা
(b) give-an opportunity to the taxpayer to explain his position.in writing regarding the excess liability arising
in the return process or reduction of return within the. period specified in the notice; and
(c) within the périod specified iri the:notice, as applicable, he shall be afforded the following opportunities,
namely -
(a) filing revised return adjusting the difference mentioned in the notice; and
(b) payment of taxes and other dues due ৪৪: ৪ result of said process.
(3) Where a notice is given, under:sub-section (2), the DCT -
(a) Within 90 days after confirming the fulfilment of the conditions mentioned below send the révised
return:acceptance letter, namely'-
(i) Whether the revised return has been filed in, accordance with the proviso to clause (c) of sub-
section (2).

(ii) whether any tax or-other amount:payable under this-Act as a‘ result of the process: has been.
7 paid on or before the filing of the amended return; and ; 7
(iii) whether the difference referred to in sub-section. (2) has been appropriate adjusted in the return
(b) If any of the conditions mentioned in clause (a) is not'fulfilled, after the-expity of the date specified in
the notice: given under sub-section (2), a-demand notice shall be issued with a statement of'income, tax,
refundable tax:or other rélated matters:
(c) The notice of claim mentioned in clause (b) shall be issued within 6 months from the date of service
of notice under sub-section (2).
17.6 Consequences of filing of incomplete return: Section 176
(1) In case. of filing of any return or'revised return, if the provisions of.section 169 or any direction issued
by the Board are not followed, the.said return or revised return shall be deemed to be incomplete.

Page |'223

(2) If the return or revised return is considered to be incomplete, the DCT shall, with the reasons specified,
‘send’a notice to the taxpayer to submit the relevant information, verification, statement or document within
the time ‘specified in the notice.
(3) If a taxpayer fails to ‘fully comply with the notice given under sub-section (2), the. return or revised
return, which was considered incomplete, shall be treated as void or ineffective. as if it had not been filed.
(4) The return or revised return shall be deemed to have been completed on the date of filing if the
taxpayer has fully’execlted the contents 01076 notice given under sub-section (2).
(5) A return shall not be deemed complete merely by reason of acknowledgment of receipt.
17.7 Audit: Section 182
(1) The Board or any authority under the Board with the approval of the Board may; in the manner
prescribed by the Board, select returns for audit from among the returns or amended returns filed under
‘section 180 and forward the ‘same to the concerned DCT forthe purpose of audit.
(14) No return. or amended return ‘filed under section 180 shall be selécted for audit under sub-section
(1), if
(a) returns or revised returns other than returns of banks and financial institutions showing total income
of at least 15% more than the: total income: of the immediately preceding assessment year; and
(b) such returns of revised returns are filed as: under; namely —
(i) corroborative evidence of tax-exempt income;
(ii) | excluding the receipt of donations in the concerned year:.
(iii) | without showing tax exempted income under section 76; or
(14) without any refund claim; and
Taxpayer files return under section 177 and ‘complies with the provision of'part 7.
17.8 Minimum tax: Section 163
As per Income Tax Act, 2023, minimum tax’ shall be payable by an assessee in accordance with
Section 163 on the basis of higher of the following:
= Income taxon the basis: of normal calculation of tax liability; oo
- Tax deducted or collectéd:at sources from: certaifi sections as.specified in section 163; and
- Minimum tax onthe basis gross receipts.
Thé following 39 héads of deduction shall be deemed to be the minimum tax-as; per section 163:
[| SL. | Section] Te
Receipt from Worker profit participant’‘fund.
| 2 | 89 | Deduction from payment to contractors, suppliers, etc’iuie 3 of Source Tax Rules, 2023]
| 3 | 90 | Deduction from the payment of certain services [Rule 4 of Source Tax Rules, 2023]
Payment for use of intangible property
Advertisement (excépt.media buyirig agency)
| 6 | 94 | Commission, discountor fees, etc.
Payment to travel agent
| 8 | 100 |Insurancecommission
| 9 | 101 | Fees of surveyors of.a general insurance company
Page | 224

Income from the above 39 heads for which minimum tax is applicable shall be determined in
regular manner and tax shall be calculated by using regular rate. on such income. If the tax so
calculated is higher than the minimum tax, the higher amount shall be payable on such income.
No ‘need to compute: income through back calculation from the following 3 sources and its final tax as
per SRO no 253-law/incometax-09/2023
ঢা মম মগ রর
income
and fixed deposit-etc. mandatory u/s 166(2)
2. Interest:on saving 105 Actual gross cash All individual taxpayer
রা [mares [een
Page:|'225

17.9 Minimum tax on gross receipts
Minimum tax for person (having gross receipts, exceeding 3 crore), firm & AOP (having gross receipts
exceeding 50 lakhs):and companies on the basis of gross receipts as follows:
Classes of assessee Rate of minimum tax on
gross receipt
1 Manufacturer of cigarette; biri, chewing tobacco, smokeless 3%
‘tobacco or any other tobacco products
Carboriated beverage
Mobile phone operator
4 Individuals assessee. other than manufacturer of cigarette, biri, 0.25%
chewing tobacco, smokeless tobacco-or any other tobacco
products
0.60%
In case of newly manufacturing industries [for the first‘ 03 years 0.10%
of commencement of its commercial, production
17.10 Spot assessment: Section 195
(1) The DCT may assess‘the tax.of any person on the spot, if such person -
(a) has taxable income;
(b) there is an obligation to file a return;
(c) has.an obligation to comply with any provision of this Act;
(d) failure to enforce or comply with any provision of this Act.
(2) The Commissioner of Taxes may, in his jurisdiction, delegate to any DCT subordinate to him the
power to assess tax under'this: section.
17:11 Best judgment assessment: Section 184
(1) Subject to the other provisions of this section, the DCT may determine the tax based on his best
judgement.of.a taxpayer in the following cases; namely -
(a) where a person has failed to comply with the notice given under section 172 and has not filed any
return or amended return under section 175; and
(b) where any person fails to. comply with a notice given under section 172, 175,.sub-sections (3) and (5)
of 183, section 193 or'212;
(2) After considering the facts and issues received and after properly. evaluating the. legal and factual.
aspects; of the case, the best judgementishall be determined.
(3) The tax assessment order passed under this section shall reflect the best judgement assessment of
tax by the DCT.
(4) The DCT shall. pass the best judgement assessment order in'writing or by certain electronic. means
and shall notify the same to the taxpayer within 30 days from the date of passing such order.
Page | 226

17.12 Various specialized assessments

1. Assessment of firms: Section 187

In ‘determining the-taxation of any firm or AOP. —

(a) first, the. total income. of the firm or AOP has to be determined and then the tax is to be assessed on

the basis of total income; and

(b) théreafter'the after-tax income is pro-rated among the partners; or members

2. Assessment in case of change in constitution of a firm: Section 188

(1) Where, at the time of assessment of a firm, it is found that a change has occurred in the constitution
of the firm, the assessment shall be made on the firm as constituted at the time of making the
assessment.

(2). Urider sub-section (1) for the purpose: of inclusion in the total income of the partners: for any
assessment year, be apportioned between the partners who, in such income year, were entitled to
receive the same and when the.tax assessed upon a partner cannot'be récovered from him, it shall
be-recovered from the firm as constituted at the time of making the assessment.

(3) For the purposes ofthis section, there is‘a change in the constitution of a firm-

(a) where all the:partnérs continue with.a change in their respective shares or in the:shares. of some: of

them, or

(b) where one or more persons who were partners continue to be so with a change by cessation of one

or more partners or addition of One or more new partners.

3. Assessment in case of new successor firm: Section 189

Where, at the time of assessment on.a firm, it is found that a new firm has been constituted to succeed

the firm to which the assessment:relates and it 08171100086 covered by section 188, séparate assessments

shall be made on the predecessor firm and the successor firm in accordance with the provisions of section.

190 relating to:assessment in case of succession to business.

4. Assessment in case of succession to. business otherwise than on death: Section 190

(1) Where, a: person, carrying on any business.or profession, has beén succeeded therein otherwise than

on death by another person in any income'year, and the successor continues to carry on that business
or profession-

(a) the predecessor shall be assessed, in respect of the income of the income year in which the

‘succession took place, for the period up to the date-of succession, and

(b) the succéssor shall be. assessed, in respect of the income of the income year, for the period after

the date: of succession.

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in-sub-section (1), where the predecessor:cannot be found, the

assessment ofthe: income year in which the succession took place up to the date of succession and of

the income year or years preceding that year'shall be made on the successor in the:like manner and to
the same extent as it would have beén made.on the predecessor: and the provisions of the Act shall, so.
far‘as may be, apply accordingly.

Page: |'227

(3) Where any sum payable under this section in respect of the income of a business or profession
carinot be recovered from the predecessor, the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes shall record a finding to
that effect, and thereafter the sum payable by the predecessor shall be payable by.and recoverable from
the successor‘who shall be-entitled to recover it from the predecessor.

5. Assessment in case of discontinued business: Section 191

(1) Subject to the provisions of section 189, whete a business is discontinued during a financial year, the
tax shall be:assessed for that year.

(2).In determining the tax. for any income year under sub-section (1),. the income: shall be: computed for
the period from. the beginning of:the income year in which the business ceased to the date on which the
business ceased.

(3) Any person discontinuing any business: or profession in. any financial year shall give to. the Deputy
Commissioner of Taxes a notice of such discontinuance within 15 days thereof; and such hotice shall be:
accompanied by a return of total income in respect of the period between the end of the income year and
the date of such discontinuance ‘and that financial year shall be deemed to be the assessment year in
respect of the income of the said period.

(4) Where, a person fails to-give the notice required by sub-section 3, the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes,
may direct that.a sum Shall be recovered from him by way of penalty not exceeding the amount of tax.
subsequently assessed on him in respect of any income from the business or profession up to the date
of its discontinuance.

(5) Where, an assessment.is to be made under sub-section 1, the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes may
serve -

(a) on the person; whose income is‘to be assessed;

(b). in the-case of a firm, on‘the person who was a partner of the firm at'the time-of discontinuance: of the
business or profession; and

(c) in the case of a. company, on the principal officer of the company; a notice to furnish within such time,
not being less. than ’7 days,.a return of his total income giving such particulars and information as are.
réquired to be furnished With a return to be filed Under section 169 along with such other particulars,
records and documents, as may be specified in the notice.

(6) The provisions of the.Act shall, so far as may be, apply to a notice under sub-section 5 for'the purpose

of assessment of tax as if it were.a notice under section 172.

6. Assessment in case of partition of a Hindu Undivided Family (HUF): Section 192

(1). A Hindu family hitherto assessed as a Hindu undivided family shall be deemed, for the purposes of
the Act, to. continue to be a Hindu undivided family except where, and in so ‘far as, a finding of partition
has been given under this section in respect:of that family.

(2) Where, at the time of an assessment of a Hindu undivided family, it is claimed by any member:
thereof that a partition has taken place amongst the members of the family; the Deputy Commissioner of
Taxes shall make an enquiry there into after giving notice to all the members of the family.

(3) On'the completion of'the enquiry, the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes shall record a finding as to
whether there has been a partition of the joint family property, and, if there has been.such a partition, the
date on which it has taken place:

(4) In the case of'a‘finding under. sub-section 3'that the partition of the undivided family took place after
the expiry of the income year, the total income of the income year of the undivided family shall be
assessed as if no partition has taken place; and-each member or group of members of the family shall;
Page | 228

in addition to. any tax for which he or it may be separately liable, be jointly and severally liable for the tax

oh the income of the family so assessed.

(5). In the case of finding under sub-section 3 that the partition of the undivided family took place during

the income year, the total income of the undivided family in.respect ofthe period up to the date of partition

shall be assessed as if no:partition had taken place; and each member or group of members of the family

shall, in addition to any tax for'which he or it may be separately liable, be jointly and severally liable for

the taxon, the income of that period as so assessed.

(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in this section, if the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes finds after

completion of the assessment of Hindu undivided family. that the family has already effected a partition,

the tax shall be recoverable from every person who was.a member of the family before the partition; anid

every such person shall be jointly and severally liable for tax on the income of the family so assessed.

(7) For the purposes of this section, the several liabilities of any member or group of members of a

Hindu undivided family shall be computed according to the paitition.of the property-of the Undivided family

allotted to him or it at the partition.

(8) The provisions of this section shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the levy and collection of

any pénalty, interest, fine or other:'sum in respect of arly period up to the date of the partition of a Hindu

undivided family as they apply in relation to levy:and collection of tax in respect-of any such period.

7. Assessment in case of person leaving Bangladesh: section 193

(1) Where it appears to'thé Deputy:‘Commissioner of Tax that any person may'leave Bangladesh during

the current financial year or shortly-after its expiry and that he has no intention of returning, an assessment

may be.made in that year, tax can be determine.on the basis of the total income of such person if-.

(a) he has been previously assessed, for the period from the expiry of the last income year of which

income has been assessed to the probable date of his departure from Bangladesh; and

(b) he has not been previously assessed, of the entire period of his. stay in Bangladesh up ‘to the.

probable date of his departure there from.

(2) Assessment.under sub-section 1 shall be made-

(a) in respect of each completed income year included in the period referred to in sub-section 1, atthe

tate at which tax’would have been charged had it been fully assessed: and

(b) in respect of the period from the. expiry’ of the last of the: completed income years to the probable.

date of departure, at the rate in force for the financial year in which such assessment is made and that.

financial year shall be deemed to. be the assessment year in respect of the income of the said period.

(3) For the purpose of making an assessment under‘this. section, the: Deputy Commissioner of Taxes

may serve a notice upon the person concerned requiring him to file, within such time, not being less than

seven days, as may be specified in the notice-

(a) areturn in the same form and verified in the same: manner as a return undef section 166 setting

forth, along with ‘such other particulars as may be required by the notice, his total income for each of the.

coiipleted income ears comprised in‘the relevant period referred to in sub-section 1; and

(b)an estimate of his total income for the period from the expiry of the last of such completed income year

to the probable date of his departure from Bangladesh.

(4)All the provisions of the Act shall, so‘far as may, apply to the. notice under sub-section 3 for purpose

of-assessment of tax as if it were a notice under'section 172.

8: Assessment of income of a deceased person: Section, 194

(1)Where a person dies, his legal representative shall be liable to pay any tax or other sum payable under

the Act which the deceased would have beénh liable ‘to pay if he had not died, in the like manner and to:
Page |'229

the same extent as the deceased; and the legal representative of the deceased shall, for the purposes
of the Act, be deemed to:an assessee. However, before.deeriing the.legal representative of the.deceaséd
to be an assessee, a notice to that effect shall be issued to him by the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes.
(2)For the purposes of making an assessment of the income of the decéased and recovery of tax:
(a)any proceeding taken against the deceased before his. death shall be deemed to have been taken
against the legal représentative and may be continued from the stage at which it stood on the:date of the
death of the deceased; and
(b)any proceeding which could have been taken against the deceased, if he had not died, may be:taken
against the legal representative; and all the provisions of the Act shall, so far as may be, apply:
accordingly..
(3)The liability of legal representative under the Act.shall be limited to the extent to which the. estate of
the deceased is capable of meeting the liability.
(4)For the purposes this section and other provisions of the Act in which the rights, interest and liabilities
of the deceased are involved, ‘legal representative’ includes an executor, an administrator and any
person administering the estate of the deceased.
9. Escaped Payment: Section 212
The following situations shall be deemed to have. escaped payment:
> The income or-any part of income has escaped assessment
> The income has been under assessed
> Excessive loss. relief,, deduction or.allowance in the return has been claimed
> Tax liability has been shown or computed lower by
[a] Concealment/misreporting of any income
[0] Concealment/misreporting of any assets
[c] Concealment/misreporting of any expenditure
[d] Concealment/misreporting of any particulars u/s 167 or 168
> Income has been under assessed or has been assessed at a lower rate than due tax rate
> Taxable income has been shown as tax exempted income.
> Excessive depreciation allowarice or any other allowance has been claimed
> Tax has been paid or computed lower than due amount by reason of'lower tax base
Preconditions:
i) Section 212 can be initidted by’ the DCT if he has reason to believe that any .sum payable by’ an
assessee has escaped payment.
ii) Before initiating the proceeding under section 212 previous approval in writing from the IJCT is to
be taken, where return has been filed under sub-section 1 of Section 180 or the assessment.of tax (01076
relevant assessment year has been completed under any other provision of the Act.
iii) Notice under-section 212 can be issued
> At any time where no return was filed and no assessment'was: made.
> 86096 years from the end of the:assessment year'in which the notice is issued
Page | 230

17.13 Limitation for assessment: section 197
(1). Subject'to the provisions of sections 197(2) and (3),
[a] no order of assessment under sections 235 shall be made after the expiry of 3 years from the end of
the assessment year.
[8] ho order of assessment in case the return is not filed within the. prescribed time Under section 171
after the expiry of 1 years from the end of the assessment year.
[0] no order of assessment other than [a] & [8] above shall be made after the expiry of 6 months from
the end of the assessment year.
(2) An assessment under section 212 may be made within two years from the end of the year in which
notice under section 212(1) was issued;
(3) Notwithstanding anything contairied under this section, limiting the tine within which any action may
be taken, or any order or assessment may be made, order or assessment, as the case may be, to be.
made-on the assessee or-any other’person in consequence of, or'to give effect to, any finding or direction,
contained in .an order 01167 séction 213, 285, 289, 292, 294 or 295 or, in the case of ৪ firm, an
assessment to be made on.a partner of a firm in consequence of an assessment made on the firm or an
agreement made on the basis of agreement reached undef séction 304, may be made within 30 days
from the date on which the order was communicated and such revised order shall be communicated to
the assessee within 30 days next following.
(4) Where an.order of assessment has been set aside by any authority.in that case:the assessment shall
be made within. 60 days from the date on:which the order was communicated to him.
(5) Where, by an order under sections 213, 285, 289, 292, 294: or 295, any income is excluded from the
total income of the assessee for an assessment year, and another assessment of such income ‘for
another assessment year shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be. one made in
consequence of, or'to give effect to, any finding or direction contained in the said order.
(6) Where, by an order under sections 213, 285, 289, 292, 294 or 295, any income is excluded from ‘the.
total income of one person and held to be the income of another person, an. assessment of such income.
of such other person, shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to be one made in consequence.
of or to give effect to, any finding or direction contained in the said order.
(5) Where the DCT fails to give effect to any finding or direction contained in an order referréd to in.sub-
section 3'within the period stipulated therein, such failure of the DCT shall be construed as. misconduct.
17.14 Bar to question assessment: Section 196
(1) No authority other than the authoritiés mentioned in section 4 or ‘the Taxes. Applied Tribunal
established under this:Act or Bangladesh Supreme:Court shall have:right to question any assessment
made under the Act. Any action taken in violation of this provision shall be null and void and have no:
legal effect.
(2) Any action taken in violation of the provision of sub-section (1) shall be null and void and have no
legal effect.
Page |'231.

RN Oe ২২২২ ২২৯২ ১ সস SRV Rete Se Fee
Chapier 18

Assessment of individuals
|[(Contents
Introduction

Examination context

Topic list
» 18.1 Definition of individuals
| 18.2 Scope of income of individual assessee |
183 Non-assessable and tax credit income টে
| 18.4 | Grossing up of income
| 18:5 Tax rate: of individuals .
| 18.6 Assessment procedure :
| 18.7 | Specimen form of computation of total income and tax liability = |
iL__Introduction

Learning objectives

B Illustrate: the assessment of individuals.

a Identify different heads of income.

z Differentiate non-assessable and tax credit:income:.

a Define: grossing up:of income.

R State. the procedure of assessment

= Prescribe a.specimen format of computing total income and net tax liability.

2 Define. the time: limitation for assessment.

Practical significance

Assessment.of income and tax liability is very significant for every assessee..Assessing the income

of individual assesseé and tax liability. thereof iS important for individual asséssés. This chapter’
recapitulates the taxable income, non-assessable income, tax credit income, grossing up of
Page | 232

income, applicable tax rates and related issues required for completing the assessment of
individuals. Application of double taxation relief, set-offand carry forward of losses, minimum tax
on the basis of TDS as. per 163, rebate for income from a partnership firm are exemplified.
Professional accountants are required to have sufficient:expertise on all of these issues.
Stop and think:
Did you realize how important is. the asséssment.for individual? Can you do the assessment of
individual assessee independently?
Working context
Assessment-of tax is very important for every assessee. An assessee.must require to be assessed
in any way..Accountants have a:great role to provide the technical assistance to their client in case.
of assessment. As there are many conditions, rules and procedures for different types of
assessments, accountants’ support sometime very significant to:complete the assessment of their
clients..
Many clients. are requiring the support for correct assessment from accountants in every year.
Detailed knowledge of accountants on the technicalities of computation of total taxable income.
and tax liability thereof for individual assessee is very important in case. of providing support for
clients’ tax assessment.
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter have ‘the. significance for professional study as you can utilize.
the knowledge throughout the application level and case study ৪170 3156 in your practical life.

| Examination context
Exam requirements.
In the éxarnination, candidates may be required to:
* Do the assessment-of individuals.
5» |dentify taxable income across different’ heads.
* Computing investment allowance, eligible amount and investment tax rebate.
= Identify non-assessable income and its application in computing taxable income..
দ Apply TDS under section 163 showing its impact on total income.
পদ |dentify the procedure of assessment
=» Compute net tax liability after due credit of TDS, investment tax rebate and others.
Question practice
For question practice on these topics, go to the.suggested answers covering this chapter.
18.0 ASSESSMENT OF INDIVIDUALS
Section overview
=> Scope of income for individuals is different:from firm. or company.
=> Applicable tax rates for individuals are different from company.
= Some income of individual assessee: is non-assessable.

Page |'233

=> On-some investment/donation, the:assessee enjoys investment tax rebate.

=> For TDS, assessee will get full tax credit:at the time-of computing net tax liability.

> With certain terms and conditions, loss Under one head can be set-off against income under
another head

> lIfloss under one head cannot be set-off completely, it can be carried forward to succeeding 6
years to set-off against the income. under the same head.

18.1 Definition of individual

The word ‘individual’ has special méaning if income'tax law. To look at its.reference iftax law, we
should look at two definitions, i.e:, assessee and person.

“Assessee", means a person by whom any tax or-other’sum of money is payable under ITA, 2923,
and includes.-

(a) every person in respect of whom any. proceeding under: ITA, 2023 has been taken for the.
assessment of his income or'the income of any other person in respect of which he is assessable,
or of the amount of refund due to:him 010 900) other person; oo :

(b) every person who is required to file a return Under section 166, 191 or 193;

(c) every person who desires to be assessed and submits, his return of income under ITA, 2023;
and

(0) every person who is deemed to be an assessee, or an assessee in default, under any provision
of ITA, 2023 [Section 2(22)].

“Person” includes. an individual, ৪ firm, and an AOP, a HUF, a trust, a fund, a company, an entity
[Section 2 (69)).

Thus, the word ‘assessee’ means a person that includes an individual who is liable to pay tax as
per Income Tax Act, 2023. This chapter represents the assessment of income of individuals and
computation of tax liability:of.an individual assessee.

18.2 Scope of income of individual assessee

As per section 30. of ITA, 2023, for the purpose of charging income tax and computation of total
income, all incomes shall 06018591060 and computed under the following heads of income, namely:
(a). Income from employment

(b) Income from rent

(০) Agricultural income

(d) Income from business:

(9) Capital gains .

(f) Income from financial assets

(g) Income from other sources

18.3 Non-assessable income and tax rebate on investment allowance:

Across the 7 heads as mentioned at.section 30, some:categories of income are declared as non-
‘assessable. Thus, at the time ‘of assessment, it is: important to know the items of non-assessable
income 5০ that it can be excluded at the tire. of Computing taxable income. Whéreas investment
tax rebate facility can be availed by. the taxpayer on investment.at allowable sectors. The list of
Page | 234

non-assessable income and investment allowance: is given in. the following schedules that are
subject to change’ from time to time through Finance Act:
s Non-assessable Income : Sixth Schedule, Part. A.& Part B
® Investment allowarice on which tax rebate is: applicable র্‌
Sixth Schedule, Part C.
The economic rationality of these provisions is embedded in the equation:
Y= Ctl
Where, Y represents income, C represents consumption and | represents investment.
To reduce the tax burden, some specific income from specific sources is declared non-assessable
on which no tax is imposed. Again, to discourage consumption and motivate investment, some.
investments are allowed for claiming investment tax rebate.
18.4.Grossing up of income
Another important issue is the-grossing up of income which is received by the assessee after TDS
at.specified rate. The equation used to gross up income. is given below:
Gross income = Net income X 100/ 100 — Rate. of tax deducted at-source.
Thus, for-grossing-up income, it is important to know the rate of TDS. Orily income réceived after
tax is required to:gross-up..Grossed up income should be included in calculating taxable income,
however, tax already deducted or paid will be claimed as: credit at the: time of computing net tax
liability.
18.5 Tax rate of individuals:
Individuals are taxed as per the: 5-tier taxation system in Bangladesh. However, these rates are
same ‘for every individual including Bangladeshi non-residents, HUF and Partnership Firm.
Current rates applicable: to individuals on total taxable income for the assessment year 2023-24
are:
দাদ] coe

On the first Tk. 3,50,000

On the next Tk. 1,00,000.

On the next Tk: 3,00,000

On the next Tk. 4,00,000

On the next Tk. 5,00,000,

On the balance

Page:|'235

Note:

a) The non-assessable income limit:will be as follows:
For women, and. elderly’ male citizens being 65 years of age Tk. 4,00,000
or more
For disable persons Tk. 4,75,000.
For: Gazetted war wounded freedom fighter Tk. 5,00,000.
For:3"¢ gender assessee Tk. 4,75,000.
For being father of disable. children or Tk. 3,50,000.
For being mother of disable children Tk: 4,00,000

b) If the aggregate. income of an individual assessee exceeds: Tk. 16,50,000 (Tk. 3,50,000 + Tk.

1,00,000 + Tk. 3,00,000 + Tk. 4,00,000 + Tk. 5,00,000), he will be-charged @ 25%:on such income

as it exceeds Tk:16,50,000.

০) However, the minimum tax would be Tk..5,000 or Tk. 4,000 or Tk.3,000 depending on the

location. of the assessee. . . রর

d) If the assessee is an owner of any small and cottage industry or engaged in such kind of

activities ina NBR specified less developed / least:developed area, he/she will be eligible to have

a tax'rebate on.such income: [Finance. Act, 2023]

If production / turnover increases by| 5%, rebate on tax applicable on such
more than 15% but less than 25% income will be allowed
comparing to. previous year
If production / turnover increases by | 10% rebate on tax applicable on such
more: than 25% comparing to. previous | income:will be allowed

[ ১০81

9) Only individual assessee having nét.wealth exceeding Tk. 4 crore as per statement of assets.

& liabilities is liable to pay surcharge @1.0%.on income:tax payable;and in case net wealth exceeds,

Tk. 10 crore but. does not exceed 20 crore then surcharge is to be paid @20%, if wealth exceeds

Tk. 20 crore but does not.exceed 50 crore then surcharge is to be paid @30%, and if it exceeds:

50 Crore then the rate of surcharge will be. 35%.

f) However, the rate of tax would be: straight 30% (at maximum rate) if the individual asséssee.

is: Classified as non-resident foreigner (NRF):

18.6 Procedure. of assessment

Step 1: Compute taxable income under different heads.

[Don't forget ‘to, exclude. non-assessable income. arid grossing up of income: at the time of

computing taxable income in specified areas]

Step 2: Compute allowable investments. made

[Don't forget to test actual investment so that it must not,exceed the maximum limit. If it exceeds

‘maximum limit, allowable investment would be the lower one]

Step 3: Compute net tax liability

[Don’t forget to consider tax credit due 00705, refund adjustment, rebate, foreign tax credit and

rebate on income from partnership firm]

Page | 236

18.7 Specimen form of computation of total income.and total tax liability
Sources of income and particulars Amo Amo Amo
unt unt, unt
1. Employment (Section 32 - 34):
Basic Salary সমস
Dearness allowarice ee
Annuity ee
Employees sharé scheme (Fair market value less-Acquisition cost) wee
Festival bonus / performance bonus wee
Leave. encashnient / Compensation wee
Employer’s contribution to recognized provident fund wee
Entertainment allowance il
Medical allowance eee
House-rent allowance il
Advance salary / outstanding salary il
Conveyance allowance “
Car facility: up to 2500 CC - 10,000 per month; above 2500 CC:-.25,000 per month ***
Rent free accommodation:.Annual rental value =
Accommodation at a. concessional rate: lela
The annual rental value Less: rent paid by the employee lela
Taxable portion of Interestion recognized provident fund “
Retirement allowance / gratuity / pension “se
Less: exempted pension full, gratuity up to Tk.2.5 crore ঢ
Other benefits (actual or fair value) “ae
Total income from employment oe
Less: 1/3 of total income from employment or 4;50000, whichever'is lower ৮
2. Income from rent (section 35 -39):
Annual value:
Rental value eet
Add: TDS (If any) ee
Add: Owner’s expenses paid by the tenant i
Less: Tenant’s expenses paid bythe owner baal
Actual rental value সমর
Higher of annual value. and actual rental value ee
Add: Advance rerit we
Add: Any receipts or sum other‘than rental value or advance rent ee
[ 695: Adjusted advance rent'which received previously সমস
Léss: Vacancy allowance wee
Rental income — i
Less: admissible expenses:
1.Repair & maintenance: expenses.
[Collection charge, sewerage bill, salary of guard, liftmen, caretaker etc.] ala
[Admissible limit: Residential house: 25%, Commercial house: 30% & Others aii
10%]
2.Land development:tax aia
3.Insurance Premium om
4 Interest payable on house building Loan টা
7386 |237

5.Annual tax [Municipal or local authority tax] ick হর
3. Agricultural income (section 40-43): -
Sale of crops “
Income from any land or building used for agricultural purposes -
Income from granting a right [‘Borga’] ae
Income from tea garden or rubber garden [60%] “se
Revenue profit by sale of discarded or demolished agricultural machineries
Other income relating to agriculture >
Less: Admissible expenses —

1. [8170 development tax eee

2. Any taxes [local taxes, etc.] lala

3. production costs all

Cost for cultivating the land or raising live-stock
Ordinary processing costs to make crop marketable হ্স্স
Transportation cost of crops:or livestock to market “
Maintenance cost of agricultural equipment & up keeping of cattle for +e
cultivation
If proper books of accounts do not maintained an expenditure equivalent, to 60% of ***
sales, proceeds is allowed as.admissible expense

4. Insurance premium “ee

5. Repair‘and maintenance of irrigation plant lela

6. Depreciation

7. Interest on mortgage. loan eee

8. Interest on borrowed capital ঢা

9. 1055 due to-discard/demolish of agricultural machineries “ae

10. Other revenue-expenses Ree AER সঙ

4. Income from business or profession (section 44-56):

Net profit as per Profit and Loss Account +e
Add: Inadmissiblé expenses as per section 54 and 55 “ee
Add: Income under the head of business. and profession that are 70017010060 ale

earlier
Less: Expenses that are allowed (not.debited in P/L a/c) lala
Total Income: mee
Léss: Iricome that'are. not'from business or'profession (already credited in P/L.a/c.). সমস ফেস
5. Capital gain (section 57 - 61): সময
Sale proceeds of capital assets, or +e
Fair market'valUe at the time of transfer, whichever is higher lala
Less — Allowable deductions
(a) Expenditure incurred to:transfer the capital asset(s) il
(b) Cost of-acquisition ll
(c) Capital expenditure incurred for improvements of the asset(s)
Capital gain সময সমন
6. Income from financial assets (section 62-65):
(a) Interest from government securities ee
Page | 238

(6) Interest from government securities
(Full amount will be.added if TDS at upfront system) “
Less: Admissible expenses. -
Bank charge.and commission সস
Interest 61 borrowed fund * স্স্স
(0) Intérest from securities based on Islamic principles ila
(To. be grossed-up if TDS at the time of payment)
Less: Admissible expenses -
Bank chaige arid. commission **
Interest on borrowed fund সস ial
(d) Interest from Wage earner Development Bond il
Less: exemption (full as per para-18) ial
(e) Interest from zero-coupon bond il
Less: exempted - (full ৪৪ per para-25) ae
(f) Income:from Dividend ~
(g)Interest from bank deposit / profit'from Islami Bank [Interest received X 100/90] om
(h)Interest on Savings Certificate: [Interest received X 100/90] +
(i) Interest.on Post Office Savings Bank-account [Interest:received X 100/90] ৬ seS
(j) Income. from mutual / unit fund [Dividend received X 100/90]
7. Income from other sources (section 66 - 69):
Any commission/fee received from parties other than employer oe
Royalty income from books ee
Income from prize bond / lottery / quiz competition / crossword [Amount ee
received .X 100/80]
Commission / fee as. Director of any company ee
_ Non-agricultural income like sale offorest trees, sale offruits, sale of honey, ll
sale of fish of pond (other‘than firm) etc.
Income from. invigilation & exam script.evaluation সস
Income from. writing articles. / columns in newspapers ial acid
Income from. participating in radio / TV/ cultural /training programs Ce) -
Income from. lease of non-agricultural land alla
Income from. tuition.
Income from. underwriting commission forsale of Sharés and securities.
Income from patent’/ license wee
Income from: rent of boat / mooring terminal ee
Income from letting out household. appliances like furniture, machinefies etc. ee
Unexplained investments deemed to be income:
Any other income not classified under any head Less- Allowable deductions ee
u/s 68:
Interest on loan taken to purchase share aia
Any other related revenue expenditure “ao
Page |'239

8. Share of profit:in a partnership firm
9. Income of Spouse:or dependent minor‘ child. al
Total income ae
Calculation of tax liability:
Amount
On first 3,50;000 0% -
On next 1,00,000 5% eee
On next 3,00,000 10% il
On fhext On fext 4,00,000 15%. সসসসস
5,00:000 20%
On remaining balance Total তা 25% lela
Less: Investment tax rebate en
Less: Tax rebate on income from partnership firm Seer
Less: Foreign tax credit: ae
Less: Tax déducted at:sourcé/Advance tax paid ial
Less: Previous Tax refund adjustment ৮
Net tax liability oT
Worked example
Example 1
Mr. Jamshed Hasan is an executive-of a private firm. He furnished the following information for'the:
income year 2022-23. Compute his total income and tax liability for the assessment year 2023-24.
Income.from salaries:
1. Basic-salary Tk. 33,000 per month;
ii. Festival bonus equivalent to two months basic salary;
iii. House rent allowance Tk. 15,000 per month;
iv. Entertainment allowance @ 5%.of basic salary:
v.. Medical allowance Tk. 2,000 per month (actual annual expense Tk. 18,000);
vi. Conveyance: allowance Tk. 1,500 per month;
vii. Contribution to RPF both by employee and employer @ 10% of basic salary
Agricultural income:
i. Sale of crops Tk. 2,70,000; a
ii. Income from sale of fish of pond Tk. 45,000 [not fish farming]
Income from business Tk.32,000
Income from financial asset:
i. Interest. from fixed deposit Tk. 27,000 [net of tax];
Page | 240

ii. Interest from savings deposit Tk. 18,000 [net of tax];
iii. Interest received on post office savings bank Tk. 9,000 [net of tax]
Income from other sources::
Income from lease of non-agricultural land Tk. 35,000
Actual investment made by Mr. Jamshed Hasan during the year'is given below.
i. Life Insurance. Premium paid Tk. 20,000; Policy. value Tk. 2,00,000
ii. Donation to local club Tk. 2,000;
iii. Gift to. wife Tk. 20,000:
iv. Donation to a local mosque Tk, 5,000;
v. Investment in primary:shares of listed companies Tk..60;000;
vi. Purchase of Savings Certificate Tk. 30,000;
vii. Donation to a charitable Hospital Tk. 10,000;
viii. Purchase of furniture Tk. 15,000;
ix. Donation to Apollo Hospital Tk. 30,000;
x. Donation to Govt..Zakat Fund Tk. 5,000.
Mr.Jamshed Hasan has Tk. 8,500 refund adjustment from last year and a carry forward of loss:
from. agriculture. of Tk. 60;000 for last three years.
Solution 1:
Mr. Jamshed Hasan
Income year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24
Computation of total income
| Sources ofincome | Amount | Amount | Amount |
1. Income from employment (section: 32):
Basic salary (33,000 X 12) 3,96,000
Festival bonus (33,000.X 2) 66,000
House rent allowance (15,000 X 12) 41,80,000
Entertainment allowance @ 5% 19,800
Medical allowance (2,000 X 12) 24,000
Conveyance allowance: (1,500:X 12) 18,000
Employer's contribution to RPF 39,600
743,400
Less: Exempted - 1/3 of income from total employment or
450,000, whichever is lower 247,800 | 4,95,600
2. Agricultural income (section: 40):
Sale of crops 2;70,000
Less: Admissible expenses —
cost of production (2;70,000 X 60%) assuming no books
. natal 1,62,000
of:accounts maintained
1,08,000
60,000
Less: f d of ious'| —
ess: carry forward of previous loss 48.000
3. Income from business (section:44)
Page |'241.

Business Income 32,000
4. Income from financial assets (section: 62):
Interest'from fixed deposit (27,000 X. 100/90) 30,000
Interest from savings bank account (18,000 X 100/90) 20,000
Interest on post office savings bank (9,000 X 100/90) 10,000 60,000
4. Income from other sources (section: 66):
Income from sale of'fish:of pond 45,000
Lease rental of non-agricultural land 41,000
86,000
Total income
| Amount __|
Life insurance premium (maximum up to 10% of policy value) 20,000
Investment in primary share of listed companies 60,000
Contribution to RPF (Tk. 39,600 x 2) 79,200
Purchase of savings certificate 30,000
Donation to:
Charitable hospital (assumiing govt. approved) 10,000
Govt. Zakat fund 5,000
Actual investment
Maximum limit: Po
15% of actual investment; 30,630
3% of total income (7,21,600 X 3%): 21,648
‘Or 10;00,000 10,00,000
Whichever is lower allowable for investment
Calculation of tax liability:
| Income. Rates Amount
On. first Tk. 3,50;000 0% -
On. next Tk. 1,00;000 5% Tk. 5,000
On balance Tk. 2,71.,600 10% 27,160
Total Tk. 7;21,600 32,160
Less: Investment tax'rebate. (21,648)
Less: Tax deducted at source (6,000)
Less: Previous year’s refund carry forward Tk. 3,988 (4,512)
Net Tax liability . =
Page | 242

Notes:
1. Actual allowable investment by Mr. Jamshed Hasan for the year is Tk. 2,04,200 x'15% 530,630
or 3% of (7,21,600 X 3%) i.e., Tk. 21,648 or Tk. 10,00,000 whichever is lower, i.e., Tk. 21,648 is:
eligible amount.
2. Tax deducted at.source: includes Tk. 5,000 on interest from bank deposit, and Tk. 1,000 on
post office savings bank.
Example 2.
Mrs. Jarin Huq is the. general manager of a private company. Her sources of income for the year
ended 30" June, 2023 were.as follows:
Salaries:
Basic:salaty per month Tk. 45,000
Medical allowance per month (actual exp: Tk: 19,000) 2,000
House rent allowance. per month 30,000
Conveyance: allowance per month. 3,000
Share:scheme received Fair value 50,000
Employer’s Contribution to RPF 10% of Basic:
Income from financial asset:
Dividend from listed company Tk. 25,000.
Interest received from government securities. (wherefrom 40,000 tax paid on upfront
system 3 years before)
Income from house property:
Annual rent received Tk. 2,80,000.
Municipal value.3,00,000
Expenses related to the house for the year:
Repair and Maintenance. Tk. 1,00,000
Municipal tax Tk. 3,000
Agricultural income:
Sale of crops Tk. 3,00,000
During the year, Mrs. Huq incurred the following investment and expenses:
Life insurance premium Tk. 48,000
Donation to local mosque 40,000
Purchase of-share‘from IPO of listed companies 44:000
As per the list of asséts and liabilities as-at.30/6/2022, Mrs. Huq’s‘net asset value Tk. 6 crore..From
the above particulars of Mrs. Hug compute total income and tax liability for the assessment year
2023-24.
Page:|'243

Solution 2:
Mrs. Jarin Huq
Income year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24
Computation of total income
[Sources ofincome | Amount] Amount] Amount |
1. Income from employment (section:
32):
Basic:salary (45,000 X 12) 5,40,000
Medical allowance: (2,000.X: 12) 24,000
House rent allowance: 30,000:X.12 3,60,000
Conveyarice allowance (3,000 X 12) 36,000
Share scheme 50,000
Employer's contribution to RPF 54,000
10,64,000
Less: Exempted - 1/3: of income from .
total employment or-450,000, whichever is 3,54,667 ae
lower 7,09,333
3. Income from rent (section: 35):
Actual rental value 2,80,000
Municipal value/reasonable rent 3,00,000 3,00,000
Annual value. (whichever is higher)
Less: Admissible expenses —
Repair'and maintenance (3,00,000 x 25%) 75,000
Municipal tax 3,000 78,000 | 2,22,000
3. Agricultural income (section: 40):
Sale-of crops 3,00,000
Less: Admissible expenses —
cost of production (3,00,000 x 60%) being 180 000
no books of accounts are maintained oe 1,20,000
4. Interest:on securities (section: 62):
Dividend 25,000.
Interest from government securities
(assuming, she took credit of tax paid at 40,000 65.000
upfront.system during that year |
মদে সম att. |
Page | 244

Calculation of allowable investment
Amount
Life insurance premium Tk.
Contribution to RPF [both] 1,08,000
Share. purchase from listed companies 44,000
Actual investment .2,00,000
Maximum limit:
০ .
15% of actual investment 30,000
3% of total income. (11,16,333.x 3%) 33,490
Or 10,00,000, 10,00,000
whichever is lower is the allowable investment allowance 30,000
. Calculation of tax liability:
| «Rates| Amount
On first’ Tk. 350,000 0% -
On next Tk. 4,00,000 5% Tk. 5,000
On next Tk. 3,00,000 10% 30;000
On balance Total 3,66 333 15% 54,950
11,16,333 89,950
Less: Investment tax rebate 30,000
. 59,950
Add: Wealth Surcharge (59,950 X 10%) 5,995
Notes:
4. 1015 assumed that the house property’ has been let outfor residential purpose and so the repair
and maintenance: expense is considered as 25% of annual value.
2. Production cost is considered ‘as 60% of'the selling price of the crops in absence of any books
of accounts:
Worked example 3
Mr. Anu Ahmed has the following income for the income year ended on 30" June, 2023:
Income.from salaries
Mr. Anu Ahmed received basic salary of Tk. 18,500 from the month of April, 2022 following the:
scale.of his salary. 17,000 —'1,500 — 20,000. Before that his basic salary. per month was Tk. 17,000
as: the:date of annual increment is: 1® April every year. Besides basic salary he received dearness:
allowance @: 15%. of his basic salary; Entertainment allowance. and Medical allowance @ 20%
‘and @10%.of basic salary respectively; Annual’bonus Tk. 36,000; house rent.allowance Tk. 11,000.
per month: conveyance allowance Tk. 1,250 per month. He contributes: 10% ‘of basic salary toa
Page:|'245

recognized provident fund (RPF) and his. employer also contributes the same in the fund. During.
the year he received Tk. 15,000 as interest on provident fund and the rate of interest was 12.5%.
Income-from financial assets.
Mr. Ahmed réceived intéreston Govt. Sectirities Tk.1,00,000. Nothing Was.deducted at source this:
year as because Tk.5,000 was deducted at upfront system @ 5% in the year of purchase
Income from business
Due to the economic problem and huge competition, his business results a loss of Tk.:80,000 this
year'which he: likes to set-off against income from the sources mentioned above.
Capital gain
He has. sold a machine at taka 150,000 before the. expiry of 5 years which was: purchased at a
price of taka 80,000 for the purpose of his business. Another 30,000 taka was spent to improve
the machine. At the time of sale, the machine had accumulated depreciation amounting to taka
60,000.
Mr. Ahmed made.and incurred the following investments and expenses during the year:
1. Life insurafice premium Tk. 6,000; policy’value Tk: 70,000.
2. Purchase of books Tk. 6,000 and purchase. of scientific instruments, Tk. 10,000.
3. Purchase of primary shares of Listed Company Tk. 20,000.
4. Donation to religious institutions Tk: 8,000; donation to Govt. Zakat Fund Tk. 7,500; donation
to presidént's relief fund Tk. 28,000; donation to a local club TK. 9,000; donation to a blind school
Tk. 15,000;
5. Purchase of a piece of land worth Tk. 70,000 in the name of his wife and a.sum of Tk. 5,000
was spent for its registration.
6. Spent:a sum of Tk. '15,000:as: educational expenses of his: children.
7. Purchase of ICB unit-certificate Tk. 20,000.
8. Purchase of-gold Tk. 20,000.
9. Contribution to group insurance:scheme Tk. 2,000.
Ascertain his total income.and tax to be paid forthe assessment year of 2023-24
Solution'3:
Mr. Anu Ahmed
Income year: 2022-23
[Assessment year: 2023-24]
Computation of total income
| Heads ofincome | Amount | Amount | Amount |
1. Income from salaries (section: 21):
Basic salary (Note —1) 2,08,500
Dearness allowance: @ 15% 31,275
Entertainment.allowance @ 20% 41,700
Medical allowance @ 10%. 20,850
Annual bonus and fees 36,000
House rent allowance: (11,000 X 12) 1,32,000
Page | 246

Conveyance allowance. (1,250 X 12) 15,000
Employér’s contribution to RPF 20,850 5,06,175
Interest from RPF 15,000
Less: exempted —up to:
33%. of total salary from employment
(5,06,175:x 33%) (Para 5, Part.3 of 2nd ;
Schedule) 1,67,038 :
5,06,175
Less: Exempted - 1/3 of income from total ot =
‘employment or 450,000, whichever is. lower 168,725 3,37,450
2: Income from business (section: 44)
Loss:from business -80,000
Revenue gain from sale of machine.as
per sec.19(16) (Cost Tk.1,10,000- WDV 60,000
Tk.50,000)
-20,000
3. Capital gain (section: 57)
Sale proceeds 1;50,000
Less: Cost of acquisition 80,000
Cost of improvement: 30,000. 1,10,000 40,000
Capital gain
4. Income from financial assets (section: 62): 1,00,000
| Heads ofincome | Amount | Amount | Amount _
1. Income from salaries (section: 21):
Basic salary (Note - 1) 2.08500
Dearness allowance @ 15% 31.275
Entertainment:allowance @ 20% 44-700
Medical allowance @ 10% 20.850
Annual bonus and fees 36.000
House rent allowance: (11,000: X 12) 132 000
Conveyance allowance: (1,250 X 12) 15.000
Employer's contribution to RPF 50.850 5 06-175
Interest from RPF 45,000 |
Less: exempted — up to:,
33% of total salary'from employment
Page: |'247

(5,06;175 x 33%) (Para 5, 28163 of 2nd Schedule) 1,67,038 _
5,06,175
Less: Exempted - 1/3 of income from total
employment or 450,000, whichever is lower 1,68,725 3,37,450
2. Income from business (section: 44)
Loss from business’ -80,000
Revenue. gain:from sale of machine as per 60.000
sec.19(16) (Cost Tk.1,10,000- WDV Tk.50,000) —
Business loss carry’forward (Section 70) -20,000
3. Capital gain (section: 57)
Sale proceeds 450,000
Less: Cost of acquisition 80,000
Cost of improvement 30;000 410.000 40,000
4. Income from financial assets (section: 62): 4,00,000
| Totalincome CE 50
1. Life Insurance premium Tk. 6,000
Maximum: 10% of Tk. 70;000 7,000 | Tk.6,000
2. Purchase of primary shares of listed Compariy 20,000
3. Donation to Govt. Zakat fund 7,500
4. Purchase of ICB unit certificate 20,000
5. Contribution to group insurance 2,000
6. Contribution to RPF (20,850 X 2) 41,700
Total. allowable investment 97,200
Maximum limit of investment tax credit: 14,580
(a) 15 % of-actual investment. 14,324
(b) 3% of total income 5 (4,77,450 ১398)
(c) 10,00,000 10,00,000
Whichever is lower 14,324
Thus, allowable investment for tax rebate 14,324
Page | 248

Calculation of tax liability:
Rates Amount
On first Tk. 3,50,000 0% -
On next Tk. 1,00,000 5% 5,000
On balance Total 27.450 10% ‘2,745.
4,77,450 7,745
Less: Investment tax rebate (14,324)
(6,579)
Net Tax liability [minimum tax] 5,000
Notes:
1. After increment on April'1, 2022.Mr. Anmed réceives basic salary of Tk: 18,500 whereas before
increment, he received basic salary of Tk. 17,000. So, his basic salary for the: income year is:
(17,000 X.9 + 18,500 X 3) = Tk: .2,08,500.
2. Tax credit is not given on financial assets as there is no TDS during the: year. Assuming he
already enjoyed tax credit in the year of purchase at:upfront system.
3. As the capital asset is sold within 5 years of acquisition, regular'tax: rate has been applied as
per 7" schedule..
4. It is assumed that ‘the revenue gain on sale of machinery’ is not included in income from
business ‘and profession. Thus, the business loss of Tk..80,000 is set off'against income under the
‘same head first and the balance is carry forward as per'section 70.
Worked example 4
Mr. Joynal Abedin works as an officer in a Multinational Company, headquartered in USA. His
sources of income for the year ended on 30" June, 2023 were-as follows:
a. Income from salaries:
1. Basic salary Tk. 15,000 per month.
2. Dearnéss allowance 10% of the basic:salary
3. Two bonuses equivalent to two month’s basic salary.
4. Medical allowance Tk. 1,000 per month (actual expense 'Tk. 10,000)
5. Entertainment allowance Tk: 200 per month
6. He has been provided with a free 2,500. CC car both for official‘and personal use.
7. He has.also been provided witha rent-free quarter municipal value of which is Tk. 80,000.
8. Travelling allowance as.a part of his service: contract Tk. 1,00;000; from where he saved Tk.
10,000.
9. He coritributes 10% of his basic salary to a Recognized Provident Fund. His employer also
contributed the same
10. During the year, he received interest.of Tk. 1,800 @ 12% from RPF..
11. He has taken Tk.21,,500 as advance in the month of June, 2023 to meet up some.of his financial,
difficulties.
b. Income from financial assets:
Mr. Abedin received interest.on Govt. Securities Tk.1,00,000. Nothing was deducted at source this.
year.as because Tk.5,000 was deducted at upfront.system in the year of purchase 3 years back.
Bank also charged Tk. 400 to collect the interest: .
Page |'249

c. Income from house property:
‘He owns a two-storied house at Dhanmondi. He stays in one floor with his family and another floor
is let out for residential purpose @ Tk. 9,000 per: month. The municipal value of the house is Tk.
2,00,000 per annum. During the year he spent the following expenses:
Repair expense. Tk..2,000
Fire Insurance premium Tk. 4,000
Land development tax Tk. 1,500
Sewerage and utilities expense Tk. 1,000
Payment of HB Loan installment-(including interest of Tk. 500) Tk.5,000
During the year, the house has: remained vacant for two months.
d. Agricultural income:
Sale of crops Tk. 5,000.
Income from borga ‘Tk, 2,000
e. Share of profit from partnership-firm Tk. 10,000
f- | Income of spouse and minor-children dependent‘on him Tk. 40;000
g. He wona lottery of Tk. 3,00,000 (tax deducted at source @ 20% - Tk. 60,000 from it)
h. During the year Mr. Abedin visited South Korea as a consultant and generated income of Tk.
5,00,000 and he paid income tax @ .25% in South Korea. He brought 2,50,000. to Bangladesh through
bank. From another visit to Russia, he generated income of Tk. 3,00;000 and paid income tax there @
20%.
i. Income from business
Profit from sole-proprietorship business Tk: 4,000. Last year’s loss carried forwarded Tk. 1,000.
j. | Income from other sources:
1. Ifiterest income from FDR. Tk. 4,500
2. Profit from Islami bank Tk. 900
3. Dividend from ICB Mutual Fund Tk. 34,500
4. Cash dividend from a listed company:shares Tk. 1,800:
5. Sale-of forest timber Tk. 2,000
Investment:claimed by Mr. Abedin:
1. | Payment of life insurance premium Tk. 8,000 (Policy value Tk. 100,000)
2. ‘Purchase of a'listed company’s primary‘share Tk. 5,000
3: Purchase of books and magazines Tk. 1,000
4. Purchase of a share of co-operative society Tk. 2,000
5. Contribution to President’s Relief Fund Tk. 3,000
6. Contribution to Govt: Zakat Fund Tk. 2,500
7. Purchase of Furniture Tk. 15,000
Based on the above information, compute Mr. Abedin’s total income .and tax liability for the
‘assessment year 2023-24.
Page | 250

Solution 4:
Mr..Joynal Abedin
Income year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24
Computation of total income
[Heads ofincome ‘| Amount] Amount] Amount |

1. Income from employment (section: 32):
Basic salary (15,000 X 12) 1,80,000
Dearness allowance (1,80,000 x 10%) 18,000
Bonus (15,000 * 2) 30,000
Medical allowance (1,000 * 12) 12,000
Entertainment allowance (200 X 12) 2,400.
Car facility [2500 CG] (10,000 x 12) 1,20;000
Rent free accommodation: annual rental value 80,000
Travelling allowance 1.,00,000
Less: Exempted —‘uip to actual expense (Para 14, 90,000 40.000
Part.A of 6th Schedule) a
Advance. salary 21,500.
Employer's contribution to RPF (10% of’ Tk. 180,000) 18,000

4,91,900
Iriterest on RPF: 1,800
Less: exempted — up to:
33% of total salary from employment 1,62,327 -
(491,900 x 33%) (Para. 5, Part 3 of 2rid Schedule)

4,91,900.
Less: Exempted - 1/3 of'income from total 1.63.967
employment or 450,000, whichever is lower oo

3,27,933
2. Income from rent (section: 35):
Actual rental value (9,000 x 12) 1,08,000.
Municipal value (2,00,000 / 2) 1,00,000
Annual value (whichever is higher) 108000
Less : Vacancy allowarice (9,000 2) 18,000 90,000
Less: Admissible expenses —
Repair and maintenance (25% x 90,000) 22,500
Fire Insurance premium (4,000 / 2) 2,000
Land development tax (1,500 /.2), 750
Iriterest on loan (500'/ 2) 250 25,500 64,500
3. Agricultural income (section: 40):
Sale of crops 5,000
Income from borga 2,000 7,000
Page |'251.

Less: Production cost (5,000 60%) 3,000 4,000
4. Income from business. (section: 44): 4,000
Profit from. sole-proprietorship business
Less: Set-off of previous year's loss 1,000 3,000
5. Income from interest on securities (Section -
62):
Interest on government securities 1,00,000
Less: collection charge charged by the bank 400 -400
Profit from Islami Bank (900 x 100/90) 1,000
Interest on fixed deposit (4,500. x 100/90) 5,000
Dividend from ICB Mutual Fund.(31,500.* 100/90) 35,000
Cash dividend of listed Co. (1,800 x 100/90) 2,000 42,600
6: Share of profit in-a partnership:firm ন্‌
(assuming untaxed being the figure is very low)
7. Income of spouse and ‘minor children
. 40,000
dependent on him
8. Income from other sources (section: 66):
Sale of'forest timibér 2,000
Prize Bond Lottery (TDS is minimum tax u/s: 163) 3,00,000 :3,02,000
9. Foreign income:
[a] Income from South: Korea: (As there is DTAA
between Koréa and Bangladesh foreign tax credit will 5,00,000.
be allowed as 29756060244:
Less: Brought to Bangladesh through official, channel
(exempted as per 6" schedule part-A para-17) 2,50,000 2,50,000
[b] Income from Russia:(As'there:is no DTAA between
Bangladesh and Russia, so no foreign tax credit will AK anf
be allowed as per section 246. Because NBR not yet 3,00,000 5,50,000
prescribed any rules in this behalf)
Total income | | 13,44.033
| Headsofincome | Amount | Amount | Amount |
1. Income from employment (section: 32):
Basic salary (15,000 X 12) 1,80,000
Dearness allowance (1,;80,000 x 10%) 18,000.
Page | 252

Bonus (15,000 x 2) 30,000
Medical allowance (1,000 * 12) 12,000
Entertainment allowance (200 X 12) 2,400
Car facility [2500 CC] (10,000 x12) 1,20,000
Rent free accommodation: annual rental value 80,000
Travelling allowance 1,00,000
Less: Exempted -— up to actual expense (Para 14, 90,000 40.000
Part A of 6th Schedule) _—
Advance salary. 21,500
Employer's. contribution to RPF (10% of Tk. 180,000) 18,000

4,91,900
Interest on RPF 1,800
Less: exempted — up to:.
33% of: total salary from employment 162,327 =
(491,900 x.33%) (Para 5, Part 3. of 2nd Schedule)

4,91 ,900
Less: Exempted - 1/3 of'income from total 41 63.967
employment or.450,000, whichever is lower _

3,27,933
2. Income from rent (section: 35):
Actual rental value (9,000 x 12) 1,08,000
Municipal value (2,00,000 / 2) 1,00,000
Annual value (whichever is. higher) 108000
Less : Vacancy allowance (9,000 2) 18,000 90,000
Less: Admissible: expénses —
Repair and maintenance (25% x 90,000) 22,600
Fire Insurance premium (4,000 / 2) 2,000
Land development tax (1,500 / 2) 750
Interest on loan (500 / 2) 250 25,500 64,500
3. Agricultural income (section: 40):
Sale of crops 5,000
| 6 from b 2,000.
Income from borga 7,000
Less: Production cost (5,000 x 60%) 3,000 4,000
4. Income from business (section: 44): ‘4,000
Profit from. sole-propriétorship business
Less: Set-off of previous year’s loss 1,000 3,000
5. Income from interest on securities (Section -
62):
Interest on government securities 1,00,000
Page |'253

Less: collection charge charged by the bank -400 -400
Profit from Islami Bank (900. x 100/90) 1,000
Interest on fixed deposit (4,500. x 100/90) 5,000
Dividend from ICB, Mutual Fund (31,500 x 100/90) 35,000
Cash dividend of listed Co. (1,800 x 100/90) 2,000 42,600
6. Share of profit in a partnership firm nn
(assuming untaxed being the figure is very low)
7. Income of spouse and minor children
eran না 40,000
dependent on him ,
8. Income from other sources (section: 66):
Sale of forest timber 2,000
Prize Bond Lottery (TDS is minimum tax u/s 163) 3;00,000 3,02,000
9. Foreign income:
[a] 10076 from South Korea (As there is DTAA
between Korea and Bangladesh foreign tax credit will 5,00,000
be:allowed as per'sec:244:
Less: Brought to Bangladesh through official channel
(exempted as per 61 schedule part-A para-17) 2,50,000 2,50,000
[b] Income from Russia:(As.there is no DTAA between
Bangladesh and Russia, so ‘no foreign. tax credit will a ,
be: allowed as per section 246. Because NBR not yet 3,00,000 9,50,000
prescribed any rules in this behalf)
Total income | 13,44,033
Calculation of eligible amount-of investment:
| Amount _|
Life insurance premium Tk. 8,000
Share of listed companies 5,000
Contribution to Govt.. zakat.fund 2,500
Contribution to RPF (18,000 x2) 36,000
Actual investment 51,500
Maximum limit of allowable investment:
15%.of actual investment (51,500 x 15%) 7,725
3% (total income— income u/s 820) = (13,44,033 — 3,00,000) X 3% 31,320
Or, 10,00,000 10,00,000
Thus, eligible.amount of investment for tax rebate would be
Page | 254

Calculation of tax liability: | __Income | Rates | Amount.
On first Tk. 3,50,000 | 0% -
On next Tk. 1,00,000 | 5% 5,000
On next Tk. 3,00,000 | 10% 30,000
On balance Tk. 294,033 | 15% 44,105
On lottery income Tk. 3,00,000 | 20% 60,000
Total 13,44,033| «| —-1,39,105
Less: Investment tax. rebate. (7,725)
1,31,380
No Tax credit for profit'on partnership firm (assuming this small nil
figure is untaxed)
1,341,380
Léss: Double taxation relief [as per Sec 244)] [note-5] 25,000
1,06,380
Less: Tax deducted at source [note-1] 64,300
Net tax liability 42,080
Notes:
1. TDS. includes Tk. 500 on interest on fixed deposit, Tk. 100 on profit ‘from Islami Bank, Tk.
3,500:o0n dividend from ICB mutual fund, Tk. 200 on dividend of listed company and Tk. 60,000 on.
winning of lottery. Altogether it comes Tk. 64,300
2. Both ০০000800090 RPF are eligible investment allowance.
3. Purchase of books, Contribution to President’s Relief Fund, shares of co-operative society
and furniture is not considered as investment allowance as these are not items of 6" schedule
(99100)
4. Avetage rate of tax = (1,31,380/13,44,033) 1.6., 10%
5. Double taxation relief: Tax.relief —
[a] | On income from South Korea (as per DTAA) 25% of 2,50,000 = Tk. 62,500.
Maximum relief for DTAA country is at an average rate of the: country — (2,50,000 X
10%). = Tk.25,000
[8] Onincome from Russia :( As there is.no DTAA between Bangladesh and Russia,
so no foreign tax credit will be allowed as per section .246 ).
Question No.5:
The following are the particulars of income of Mr.Fazal for the year'ended 30th Juné, 2023.
a) Salary Tk.12,000/- per month (basic)
b) Dearness Allowance 40% of basic pay but maximum of Tk.4,000 per month
c) Entertainment Allowance Tk.400 per month.
0) Bonus-equivalent'to basic salary of two months.
e) Income from Commercial Securities Tk:6,098/-.
f) Honorarium as part time advisor Tk.20,000/-
g) Income from Partnership Business’ Tk.50,000/-(taxed).
h) Income from Agricultural Land (sale of crops) Tk.10,000/-:
Page:|'255

i) Royalty from books Tk.7,000.
j) Received birth day presentation Tk.5,000.
k) Interest.on pensioner savings certificate Tk.10;000.-
Mr. Fazal was provided with a free-furnished quarter annual rental value Tk. 36,000. He also owns
a house which is let:out-at Tk.10,000 per 70170). The reasonable rent of the house is Tk.1 ,00,000.
He spent Tk.7;500/- ‘for repair and Tk.30,000 for alternation. He also paid Tk.4,000 for Municipal
Tax, Tk.2,000 for fire insurance: premium, 103,000 for collection charges.
Other Particulars of Mr. Fazal areas follows:
1. He contributed 10% of his basic salary to a recognized provident fund to which his employer
contributed equal amount.
ii. He insured his-own life'for Tk.75,000 and for the. life of his'wife for Tk.50,000. He paid insurance
premiums on the above policies Tk.6,000 and Tk.4,000 respectively.
iii. Purchased Sanchay Patra for Tk.20,000.
iv. He spent Tk.8,000 on education for two college:going children.
Required to calculate:
i) Total taxable income
ii) Investment tax rebate
iii) Tax'to be paid.
Answer to question no.5:
Computation of Total income of Mr. Fazal
lncome Year: 2022-23
Assessment Year: 2023-24
[Particulars |
1. Income from employment: Sec, 32
a) Basic: Salary: Tk.12,000 Monthly 12,000x12: 1,44,000
b) Dearhess allowance: 40% of Basic pay Maximum:
4,000x12: 48,000.
c) Entertainment.Allowance: 400X12: 4,800
d) Bonus (2 month’s Basic Salary) 12;000X2 24,000
e) Free Furnished Quarter: Annual rental value 36,000
f) Employer's contribution to RPF: 10% of B.'S. 14,400 271200:
Less: Exempted :- 1/3 of income from total employment or 180.800
450,000, whichever is lower 90,400 | ~~~
2. Income from rent: Sec.35
Wholly let out house:
Annual Rental Valué: 10,000x12 420,000.
Or, reasonable rent (Higher one is A.V.) 1,00,000 4,20,000
Less: admissible deductions:
Page | 256

i) Répair 25% ‘th of A.V (including collection charge) 30,000

ii) Municipal tax 4,000

iii) Insurance Premium 2,000] 36 000 84,000 | 84,000

3. Income from Agriculture: 5০০. 40 :

Sale of crops 10,000

Less Cost of production @ 60% 6,000 4,000

4. Income from Business: Sec.44 :

Income from Partnership Business (taxed income) ‘50,000

5. Income from financial assets (section 62)

Income from. Commercial Securities 6,098

6. Income from Other Sources: Sec. 66

a) Honorarium as’ advisor 20,000

b) Royalty from books. 7.000 27,000

০) Birth Day:Gift (Non-taxable as gift.is not income) 5,000

Total Income es ee ee

Investment Tax Rebate: Sec. 78

a) Actual Investment:

i) Employee and employer contribution to. RPF: 14,400x2 28,800

ii) Savings certificate purchase 20,000

iii) Life Insurance Premium

Self: 6,000 or, 10% of Policy amount 7,500 (i.e., 10% of Tk. 50;000) 6.000

(Lower) |

Wife: 4,000 Or, 10% of Policy. amount 5,000 (i.e., 10% of Tk. 50,000) 4.000

(Lower) তেরে

Total investment 58,800

b) Investment tax rebate:

(a) 3% of T.]. =3,51,898 X 3% 10,557

(b) Tk. 10,00,000, 10,00,000

(c) Actual investment'Tk. 58,800 X 15% 8,820

Lower amount is.the eligible for investment tax rebate 8,820

Tax calculation:

Total Income Tk. 357,898

Tax:on 1১710. 3,50,000=: Nil

Tax.on next Tk:.1,898 x 5% 95

Less: Investment tax' rebate. 8,820

Tax:comes at Tk. .95 but minimum tax‘will be 5,000

Page: |'257

Less: Rebate on income from partnership firm at average. rate: 710
(50,000x5,000/351 ,898)
Net tax payable 4,290
Note:
1) Income from Commercial Securities: needs not to be grossed-up assuming TDS was at Upfront
system during the year of purchase. Moreover TDS information is not given in the question.
2) Rebate would. be calculated at the.average rate:of tax out of thé “Income‘from Paitnership Businéss”
(taxed) to arrive at the Net:tax calculation as per'section 80 of ITA, 2023.
3) Royalty income from books is taxable u/s 66 of ITA, 2023.
4) Education expense for Children is not:an item of investment allowance:
5) Interest on pensioner savings certificate is tax free up. to investment of Tk. 5 lakh. As the interest
income figure is only Tk.10,000, so | assume that investment was within that non-taxable ceiling.
Question No.6
Mr..A. Quaderworks as Manager Finance in a reputed financing company. The following are the
détails of income of Mr. A. Quader for the year ended June 30, 2023.
(a) Salary Income:
Basic Salary - Tk. 35,000. p.m.,, Bonus — 2 months basic salary, House rent allowance — 40% of
basic: salary, Medical allowance — Tk. 2,500 p.m.,; Conveyance allowance — Tk. 3,000. p.m.,
Concessional passage within Bangladesh — Tk. 1,30,000, Subscription to RPF — 10% (Employer's
contribution is-also the same), Interest accrued Tk. 85,000 on RPF balance calculated @ 16%.
(b) Income from Rent:
[1] Mr. Quader has one residential house-one half of which is let out at a monthly rent of Tk.
12,000 870 the other half is self-occupied. Following expenditures were incurred by Mr. Quader:
Municipal tax Tk.22,000; Repairs.and maintenance Tk.55,000; Insurance premium Tk.16,000:
Salary of’caretaker Tk.36,000
[2] Income from shop rent Tk. 2,500 per month
(c) Income from Land:
[1] Sale of paddy from agricultural land given on Barga system.— Tk.1,12,000.
[2] Sale proceeds from trees of spontaneous growth in Mr. Quader’s land Tk. 12,000
(e) Income from Business:
[1] Share of profit from a partnership firm Tk. 67,000
[2] Business Income Tk. 70,000 (after allowing current‘year's depreciation Tk. 20,000)
The. following sums have: been brought.forward from the preceding year:
(1) Unabsorbed depreciation’Tk. 80,000
(2). Business loss Tk. 50,000
(d) Capital Gains:
1. Profit On sale of shares of MNC.Ltd (A Private Ltd. Co.) Tk. 40;50,000
ii. Sale of Shop (Deed’Value Tk. 1,82,500), Original cost Tk..30,750 and tax deducted at source
at the time of registration Tk. 5,650 to be assessed u/s. 163.
ii, Profit on sale of shares of ERZ Ltd. Tk. 23,30,500 (A Publicly Listed Co.)
Page | 258

(f) Interest income and dividend income (Net @ 10% tax deduction at source):
(1) From Leasing Company Tk. 8,33,500
(2) On Bank Fixed Deposit Tk. 1,25,250
(3) On Bank Savings Account Tk. 55,700
(4) On cash dividend Tk. 11.115
During the year Mr. Quader made the following investments -
(1)Life insurance premium Tk.65,000 (Policy Value Tk:500,000)
(2)Investment in shares of-a listed company Tk. 120,000
(3)Donation.to charitable institutions as approved by NBR Tk.33,000.
Requirement:
Compute Mr. Quader’s total income and tax liability for the assessment year 2023-24.
Answer to question No. 6:
Name of the Assessee: Mr. A. Quader
Income Year: 2022-23
Assessment year: 2023-24
Computation Total Taxable Income
Income from employment: (u/s 32)
Basic salary’ (35,000 Tk. Per month) 4,20,000
Bonus (2: months basic) 70,000
House rent (40% of basic'salary) 1,68;000
Medical allowance: 30;000
Conveyance allowance 36;000
Concessional passage within Bangladesh 1,30,000
Less: Exempted (Assumed ‘that it is ‘as: per employment 130 000 _
contract and actually spent as per 6th schedule)
Employer’s, contribution, to. RPF (10%:of basic) 42,000
7,66,000
Interest accrued on PF @16% p.a. 85,000,
Less: Exempted (766,000 x:33%) (Para 5, Part 3 of 59-707 .
2nd Schedule) 2.92./80 = ____=
7,66,000
Less: Exempted - 1/3 of income from total 2 55.333
employment or.450,000, whichever is lower “a
Taxable income from salary 5,10 ,667
Income from rent: (u/s 35)
তা , . 1,44,000
Annual value (as it seems reasonable)
Less: Admissible deductions
Repair and maintenance (25% of anriual value) 36,000
Page |'259

Municipal tax (1/2: of Tk. 22,000) 11,000,
Insurance premium (1/2 of Tk. 16,000) 8,000, 89,000
Shop rent (as it'seems reasonable) 30,000
Less: Repair and maintenance (30% of annual value) 9,000
21,000
Income from Rent: 1,10,000
Income from agriculture: (u/s:40)
‘Sale of paddy oh Adhi system 1,12,000 1,12,000
(To be added direct.as he did not cultivate)
Income from. business: (u/s 44)
Share of profit ofpartnership firm 67,000
(assumed that firm’s income is, below taxable so partner
will have to pay tax on'this income at regular tax rate)
Business: income. 70,000.
Less: Business loss b/f (assuming loss: from same 50,000 20,000
business)
87,000
Less: Unabsorbed depreciation (from Tk:80,000) 20,000
Total income from business. 67,000
Capital gains: (u/s 57)
Profit on sale of shares, of MNC Ltd (A Private Ltd. Co.) 40,50,000
Profit on sale of shares of ERZ Ltd (Publicly listed Co.) 23,30;500
Less: Exempted fully'as. pér 6th Schedule — 23,30,;500 -
Capital Gain on sale of shop [1,82,500 -30;750] 1,51,750 42,01,750
Capital Gains
Income from financial assets (u/s 62):
Int. from leasing company (gross, TDS @ 10%) 9,26,111
Int. on Bank Fixed deposit (gross, TDS @ 10%) 1,39,167
Int. on savings bank:a/c (gross, TDS @10%) 61,889
Cash dividend (gross) assumed from listed co. 12,350 11,39,517
| Income from other sources: (u/s 66)
Sale proceeds from trees 12,000
Total income 61,52,934
Computation of Investment Tax Rebate Tk.
Employee's and Employer's contribution to RPF 84,000
Life insurance premium actual Tk. 65,000 but allowed 50.000
up to 10% of policy value Tk. ,
Page | 260

5,00,000)
Investment in shares. of listed companies 120,000
Donation approved by NBR 33,000 _
Allowable limit of investment:
Lower of -
3% of total income excluding income u/s 163
Tk. (61,52,934 — 1,82,500) x 3% 1,80,035
15% of actual investment 43,050
Maximum limit 10,00,000
Tax rebate on investment,(Lower one), Tk..43,050
Computation of tax liability Total tay rate. Tax
: income -
First up:to. Tk. 3;50,000 3,50,000 0% -
Next up to Tk. 1,00,000 1,00,000 5% 5,000
Next upto Tk.:3,00,000 3,00,000. 10%. 30,000
Next up to Tk. 4,00,000 4,00,000 15% 60,000
Next up to Tk. 5,00,000 5,00,000 20% 100,000
On balance Tk. 3,83,136 2,70,434. 25% 67,608: 262,608
Total except Profit on sale of shares of MNC Ltd. (A
Private Ltd. Co.) Tk..4,050,000 and sale of shop Tk. 19,20,434,
182,500.
Add: Tax applied on shop sale 1,82,500 5,650
Add: Tax.on Capital ‘Gain on sale. of shares of MNC
Lid. (A Private Ltd. Co:) assuming that it was-sold Pop a
after 5 years. So, tax rate will be 15% as per 7" 4,050,000 15% 607,500
schedule.)
Less: TDS
(1) From-sale of land u/s: 163 5,650.
(2) TDS from Interest from leasing company 92,611
(3) TDS on Interest on Bank. Fixed deposit 13,917
(4) TDS on cash dividend 1,235
| 6,189 (119,602):
756,156
Less: Investment tax.rébate.on investment 43,050
Tax payable 713,106
Question No.7
Mr. Samual.Gomez.works in Bangladesh as an officer in a Multinational Company, headquartered
in the USA. His sources: of income for the. year ended on 30th June, 2023 were as follows:
a. Income from Employment:
(1) Basic Salary Tk.15,000. per month.
Page |'261

(2) Deéarness allowance 10% ofthe basic salary

(3). Two bonuses equivalent to two months" basic salary

(4) Medical-allowance Tk.20,000 per year (actual expense’for the year Tk.10,000)

(5) Entertainment allowarice Tk.200 per month

(6) He has been provided with a free car (2500 CC) both for official and personal usés.

(7) He-has:also been provided'with a rent-frée quarter, municipal value of which.is Tk.80,000 p.a.
(8) Travel allowance as a part.of his contract Tk.100,000 p.a. from where he saved Tk.10,000.
(9). He:contributes 10% 01715 basic salary to RPF. His employer also contributed the same.

(10) During the year, he received interest. 0111, 1,800 @ 12%:on RPF.

(11) He has taken one month’s basic:salary as advance in the month of June to meet up some of
his _ financial difficulties. .

b. Income from financial assets:

(1) Interest on government securities Tk.3,000..

(2) Interest on less-tax government securities. Tk.2,700.

(3) Interest on approved debentures Tk.27,300. He has borrowed Tk.20,000 @ 10% interest to
purchase it. Bank also charged Tk:400 to collect.the interest.

(4) Interest income from FDR Tk.4,500 (net of TDS @ 10%)

(5) Profit from. Islami bank Tk.900 (net of TDS @. 10%)

(6) Cash Dividend from ICB Mutual Fund Tk.31,500 (net of TDS @ 10%).

(7) Cash Dividend from a listed company shares Tk.1,800 (net of TDS @ 10%)

c. Income from House Properties:

He owns.a two-storied house in Dhanmondi. He stays in.one floor with his family and another
floor is let out.for résidential. purpose at a rate. of Tk.9,000 per month. The municipal value 0076.
house is Tk.200,000 per annum. During the year he spent the following expenses for the:whole.
house:

Repair expense Tk:2,000, Insurance expense Tk.4,000, Land development tax Tk.1,500
Sewerage and utilities expense Tk.1,000, Payment of DBH Loan Installment Tk.5,000 (including
interest of Tk.500).

During ‘the year, the: house has remained vacant for two months.

d. Agricultural income: Sale of crops Tk.5,000 and Incomé from barga Tk.2,000

e. Share of profit from.a partnership firm. Tk.10,000 (firm paid no tax thereon)

f. Income of spouse and minor child Tk:40,000

g. He won Prize Bond lottery of Tk.300,000 [tax deducted at source: @ 20% from it]

Foreign Income

During the year Mr. Gomez: visited South Korea as a consultant and generated income of
Tk.500,000 and he paid income tax @ 25% in South Korea. He. brought’Tk.250,000 ‘to
Bangladesh through bank..From another visit to Uganda, he generated income of Tk.300,000
and paid income tax there @ 20%. Bangladesh has DTAA (Double Taxation Avoidance
Agreement) with South Korea, but not with Uganda.

h. Income from business: Profit from sole-proprietorship: business Tk.4,000; last year’s loss
carried forwarded Tk.1,000.

i. Income‘from other-sources::

(1). Sale of forest timber Tk.2;000

Investment claimed by Mr. Gomez:

(1) Payment of life insurance premium Tk: 8,000 (Policy value Tk. 100,000)

(2) Purchase of a listed company’s primary share Tk.5,000.

(3) Purchase. of books: and magazines 111,000

(4) Purchase of a share-of co-operative society Tk.2,000
Page | 262

(5) Contribution to Government.Zakat Fund Tk:2,500:
(6) Purchase. of Furniture Tk.15,000
Requirement: Based on the above information, calculate Mr. Samual Gomez's total income and
tax liability for the assessment year 2023-24
Answer to question No.7:
Mr. Samual Gomez
Income Year: 2022-23
Assessment Year: 2023-24
Computation of Total Income
1. Income from Salary (Section: 32):
Basic salary (15,000 X 12) 1,80,000
Dearmess allowance (1,80,000.* 10%) 18,000
Bonus (15,000 x 2) 30,000
Medical allowance 20,000
Entertairiment allowance (200 X 12) _ 2,400
Car facility. (10,000 X 12) 1,20,000
Rent Free Accommodation: Rental value 80,000
1,00,00
Travel allowance 0
Less: Exempted — up to actual expense 90,000 10,000
Advarice salary. 15000
_ Employer's contribution to RPF (10% of 48000
Tk.180,000)
4,93;400
Interest from RPF 4,800
_ Less: exempted - up to: 33% of total 162,82 .
salary from employment 2
_ 4,93400
Less: Exempted - 1/3 of income from total 464-467
employment-or 450,000, whichever is lower - রড
2. Income from rent (Section: 35):
Actual rental value (9,000. x 12) 108,00
Municipal value (2,00,000 / 2) 100.00
Annual value (whichever is higher) 108,00
Less: Vacancy‘allowance (9,000 2) 18,000 90,000
Less: Allowable deductions
Repair and maintenarice (25% x 1,08,000) 27,000
Insurance (4,000 / 2) 2,000
Land development tax.(1,500'/ 2) 750
Interest on. loan (500 / 2) 250 250 30,000 60,000
Page:|'263

3. Agricultural Income (Section: 40):
Sale of crops 5,000
Soo. Allowable deductions: Production cost 3.000 2,000
Income from barga: 2,000
4,000
4. Income from Business (Sec:44):
Profit from sole-proprietorship business
Less: Carry forward of previous year’s loss 4,000
1,000 3000
Share of profit from partnership firm (below 40.000
taxable) —
5. Income from financial assets (Sec.62):
Interest on government securities. 3,000
Int. on less-tax:Govt.,securities (2,700 £ 100/95) 2,642
Interest on approved debentures 27,300
Less: Allowable expenses:
Bank Charge -400
Interest on: loan -2,000 26,900
Interest on FDR (4,500 x 100/90) : 5,000
Profit from Islami Bank (900 * 100/90) 1,000
Dividend from ICB Mutual Fund (31,500 *
100/90) 35,000
Dividend of listed Public Ltd. Co. (1,800 x 2000
100/90) "
75,742
6. Income of spouse or minor child a ee 40,000
7. Income from other sources (Section: 66):
Sale of forest timber 2.000
Prize Bond Lottery [income u/s 163] 3,00,000
3,02,000
8. Foreign Income:
Income from South Korea 100,08
Less: Brought’to Bangladesh through official
channel .
(exempted as per 6" schedule (part-A) para-17
of ITA,2023). On remaining Tk.2,50,000' foreign
tax credit will be applicable as per.sec.244
00,08 2,50,000
Income. from Uganda:(As theré is no DTAA -
between Bangladesh and Uganda, so no
foreign tax credit will be allowed as per section 3,00,000
246 as NBR not'yet prescribed any rules in this
behalf)
Pp ]. ৪0000
Page | 264

| Total Income | | | 19,73,87 |
Calculation of Allowable investment
allowance
PCs ] Aunt
8,000
5,000
2,500
36,000
51,500
7.725
Calculation of Tax liability:
| Particulars | Rate| Amount |
On first'Tk. 3,50,000 0% 0
On next Tk. 1,00,000 5% 5,000
On next Tk. 3,00,000 10% 30,000
On balance Tk. 323,675 15% 48,551
Total 10,73,675 83,551
+ tax on prize bond lottery @.20% on
Tk.3,00,000[163 income] —
1,43,551
Less: Investment tax rebate 7725
1,35,826
No Tax:credit.as firm’s income was below Nil
taxable —
1,35,826
Less: Double. taxation relief (foreign tax, credit
as per sec 244 Average tax rate in Bangladesh
is. (1,35,826/13,73,675) i.e.,
10%. Tax relief on income from South Korea (as
‘per DTAA) 30% of 2,50,000 = Tk. 75,000 but 25000
maximum relief is at. an average rate of the a
country (2,50,000 X 10%) =Tk. 25,000
1,10,826
Less: TDS [142+500+100+3,500+200+60,000] 64,442
Net tax payable ee 579
Pp
Page:|'265

Question No.8
Mr. Rafiq is a Finarice Manager of a multi-national company. His income for the Assessment Year
2023-24 were as under:
[1] Basic Salary- Tk. 60,000 per month.
[2] House Rent Allowance- 60% of the Basic Salary.
[3] Medical. Allowance- 10% ofthe Basic, Pay.
[4] Entertainment Allowance- 10% of the Basic Salary.
[5] Employer’s Contribution to Recognized Provident Fund= 10% of the Basic: Salary.
[6] Bonus- equivalent to 2 month’s Basic Salary.
[7] Mr: Rafiq was provided with a.servant at monthly salary of Tk.8,000 each.
[8] He is entitled to two months’ Basic Salary as.a Gratuity at the time of retirement.
[9] He is:also entitled to a full-time 2500 CC car: Car related expenses are: borne by the company.
His other incomes were: as follows:
[1] Dividend from a company listed in the Dhaka Stock Exchange Tk.150,000.
[2] Dividend from Private limited company Tk.60,000.
[3] Interest'from 5 years’ Bangladesh Sanchaya Patra Tk.75,000.
[4] Interest from Savings Bank A/c. Tk.40,000 (Gross) from which 10% tax was deducted.
He has a house from which he earns monthly rental income of Tk.60,000. He paid Municipal Tax
of Tk.4,000 pér quarter. Interest paid 6n the Bank Loan was Tk.180,000 per annum.
Mr. Rafiq contributed Tk.72;000 to Provident Fund. Interest accrued on the P.F. Balance’ was
Tk.40,000. He paid Life Insurance Premium of Tk.56,000. He purchased 5 years’ Bangladesh
Sanchaya Patra Tk.190,000.
Compute Total Income and Tax Liability. thereon of Mr. Rafiq forthe Assessment Year 2023-24
Answer (0 question No. 8:
Mr. Rafiq
Computation of Total Income
Assessment year 2023-24
Income from employment Amount
Basic Salary --Tk.60,000 per month
(60,000 x 12) 7,20,000
Bonus - 2 months’ Basic (60,000 x 2) 1,20,000
. = of H Of: ;
মাঠ Rent - 60% of Basic (60% x 60,000 432,000
Entertainment - 10% of Basic (10% x .
720,000) 72,000
Medical,Allowance - 10%. of Basic 72,000
Employer's Contribution to P.F - (10% x :
720,000) 72,000
Page | 266

Full Time Car Entitlement 1,20,000
Salary of Servant (8,000 x 12) 96,000
17,04,000
Less: Exempted - 1/3-of income from total
employment or 450,000, whichever is 4°50,000 12,584,000
ower |
(ii) Income from Rent
Annual, Value - 60,000 per month |
(60,000x12) | 120,000
Less: (1) Repairs & Maintenance is 25% ,
of Annual value 1,80,000
(2) Municipal Tax 4,000 per quarter= , “
4,000.x 4 16,000
(3) Interest.on Bank Loar 1,80,000 3,44,000
(iii) Income from financial asset
Interest from.5 years’ Bangladesh Sang
Sanchaya Patra 75,000
Dividend from Listed Company 150,000
Dividend from Private Ltd.. Company 60,000
Int.:on Savings Bank Account 40,000 3,25,000
Total Income: 19,23,000
Tax:calculation:
Total Income Tax Income
Otat Ine) Rate. Tax
On income 3,50,000 0% NIL
On the next Tk. 1,00,000 5% 5,000
On the next Tk: 3,00,000 10% 30,000
yn the ney ra At রগ [50
On the next Tk. 4,00,000 15% 60,000
On the next Tk: 5,00,000 20% 4,00,000
On the balance 2,73,000 25% 68,250
19,23,000 263,250
Less: Tax rebate on Investment (Note) 57,690
2,05,560
Less: [1] 10% TDS on Tk. 40,000 int. on Saving Bank Account A 000
০ : 5 .
[2] 10% tax deducted on Sanchaya Patra: 7,500
Page: |'267

[3] 10%. tax:deducted on cash dividend 15,000
Net tax payable 4,79,060
1. The salary of sérvant-will be incliided to his income from émiployment.
2. Investment allowance is limited to Tk. 10,00,000 or 3% of total income or 15% of actual
investment, whichever is less. Here, his total income is Tk. 19,23,000: and 3% of this amount will
be Tk. 57,690. But his investment is as follows:
0) P. F. Contribution (Tk. 72,000 x.2) 144,000
(ii) LLP. 56,000
(iii) 5 years. Sanchaya Patra 190,000
15% of actual investment 390,000 x 15% = 58,500. Thus, lower one 57,690 allowable tax rebate‘on
investment
3. Gratuity ‘will be considered when it is received. Any amount up to taka two crore fifty lac
received by an assessee as gratuity is exempted from payment of tax.
4. Interest accruing to or derived by a recognized provident fund is tax free up to a certain limit.
| assume thatiit is within the limit. So, it is exempted.
Question No.9
Mr. Abedin’s salary during the financial year 2022-23 is as follows:
Amount in Taka
15,00,000/-
300,000/
760,000
Medical allowance 150,000/-
Conveyance allowance 100 ;000/-
Mr. Abedin is also the owner of a’3 storied residential building in Dhaka. During the financial year
2022-23, he received total rent Tk. 1.0,80,000/-, and paid city corporation tax Tk.50,000/, land 'tax
TK.500/-.
Mr. Abedin also received FDR interest Tk.200,000/-, Tk.250,000/- as interest from savings
certificate and Tk:100,000/- as dividend from listed companies.
Mr. Abedin purchased savings certificate of Tk.500,000/- during the year.
Tax. of Tk.180,000/- has been deducted from Mr. Abedin’s salary during the year and other
deduction of tax at sources has been made properly.
Mr. Abedin’s net asset as on 30/06/2023 is Tk.3,53,78;960/-. As per life: style form, Mr.
Abédin’s family expenditure other than taxes:is Tk.11,46,537/-. He paid advance tax Tk.3,50,000/-
u/s 154 for the assessment year 2023-24 and Tk.30,000/-. to pay off the tax liability u/s 173 atthe.
tirie of submitting return for the-assessment Year 2023-24.
Page | 268

For the assessment'year 2023-24 compute the following with regard to Mr: Abedin:
(1) Salary‘income;
(2) House property income;
(3) Income from other sources;
(4) Income u/s: 163:
(5) Total Income and tax payable;
(6) Investment allowance and investment tax credit;
(7) Amount of tax deducted at sources;
(8) ‘Nettax payable including surcharge, if any.
(9) Keeping in view the provision of Income Tax.Act, 2023, compute the. maximum amount of
net-asset that. Mr. Abedin: may have as on 30/06/2022.
Solution to the Q. No.9
Salary Income
Pay and Allowance Amount Exempted Taxable
দারা রা | alan
73 of income
from total
employment 23,50,000
or 450,000,
lower
House Property Income
> Annual Value 10,80,000
Less: Repair & Maintenance
(1/4" of annual value) 2,70,000
City corporation tax ) 50,000
Land tax 500
3;20,500
Net House property income. 7,59,500
Income from Other Sources
> FDR interest 2,00;000
> Cash dividend 1,00,000
Income from other sources 3,00,000
Income from financial assets u/s 163,
> Interest.on savings Certificate 250,000
Tax.deducted @ 10% 25,000
Total Income of Mr. Abedin
Page |'269

House Property Income 7,59 500
Income from Other Sources 3,00,000
[_Totalincome 36,59,500.
Tax Calculation
Next tk: 1,00,000 5,000
Next tk: 3,00,000 30,000
Next tk. 4,00,000 60,000
Next tk. 5,00,000 1,00,000
Next tk. 17,59,500 4,37,875
Interest on:securities u/s 163'tk. 250,000 25,000
Tax chargeable on total Incomé Ps 659,875
Calculation of Investment Tax Credit:
Amount (Tk.)
Purchase of:savings certificate ‘500,000
Total Investment 500,000
Investment Allowed for tax.credit (Actual Investment Tk. 500,000 X 15% = 75,000
75000 or 3% of TK. .34,09,500 i.e., 1,02,285 or Tk. 10,00,000 (whichever is
lower)
Investment Tax credit: 75,000
Tax Calculation. Tk. Tk.
Tax chargeable on Total Income: 659,875
Less: Investment'tax credit 75;000
Tax payable 584,875
Add: Surcharge: 10% 58,488
Less :Tax credit (TDS & AIT):
(1) Advance Income Tax paid 350,000
(2) TDS on salaries 180,000
(3) TDS-on FDR interest 20,000
(4) TDS on dividend 15,000
(5) TDS-on Interest on S/G 25,000 590,000 |
Net tax payable /(refund) 53,363,
Reconciliation of Wealth Statement
Amount (Tk.)
Net assets ৪৪ on 30/06/2023 3,77 84,423
Net assets as on 30/06/2022 3,53,78,960
Apparent Wealth Accrétion 24,05,463
Tax.deducted at source. 2,;35,000
Tax paid u/s 173 during the previous. year 30,000
Page | 270

Advance tax paid 350,000
Family expenditure: 11,46,537
Real wealth Accretion 41,67,000
Source of Fund
Source of fund Ps Amount (Tk.)
| Taxableincome CT sd 36;59,500
House Rent allowance 300,000| —(tsCsidC
Medical allowance 120,000|. «SY
Conveyance allowance 30000,
জা মারার 4,50,000
Total sources: of fund. PF | 41,59,500
Reconciliation of Wealth Statement
Total Accretion + Family Expenses + Tax Payment 41,59,500
Total Sources of Fund 41,59,500
Deemed income as income from other-sources PE |
Wealth Surcharge
Tax Payable TK. 5,84,875
Net assets as on 30/06/2023 TK..3,77,84,423
Surcharge. payable: 5,84,875 @ 10%) TK 58,488
Question No.10:
Mr. Faizan is the Head :of Taxation of RX Limited. During the financial year 2022-23 he earned following
income:.
Income from Employment:
[1] Mr. Faizan received Taka 12,00,000 as cash salary. out of Which basic pay’ was 60%, imiédical
allowance Was 20%, transport.allowance was 15% and education allowance ‘for children was 5%.
[2] The company’ provided him with:a 2500 CC car'for official and his family use.
[3] He was also provided with a residential house against which the company incurred rental expense
of Taka 3,10,000.
[4] Though the company has a Recognized Provident Fund, Mr. Faizan did not apply for becoming the
member of that Fund. As per the Provident Fund Rules, the contribution to the Fund by the employer
is 8% of basic pay.
Income from Rent:
He: leased out ৪ 7০056 with ah annual rent of Taka 1,20,000. He spent Taka 15,000 as repair and
maintenance, Taka 5,000 as: municipal tax and Taka 2,500 as fire insurance premium.
Income from Agriculture:
Page |'271

Mr. Faizan owned 25 bigha agricultural land in his: village. By cultivating paddy in 10 bigha land, he.
generated income of Taka 1,20;000: The rest of the land he. rented out for a cash consideration of Taka
1,60,000. He owned a power tillerto cultivate the land, the:tax depreciation of which was: Taka 12,000
and maintenance cost was Taka 6,000. He paid land development:tax Taka 25,000: and interest Taka
2,00,000 against the bank loan taken for the purpose of buying land.
Income from Financial Assets:
He: received interest from Coupon Bond arid FDR Taka 10,000 (Gross) arid Taka 98,100 (net)
respectively. He-also received dividend Taka 22,500 (nét).by purchasing share from secondary market
at a: value of Taka 1,00,000 on 1 January 2023.
In addition, he made the following transactions relating to financial year 2022-2023:
[1] Donation made to the.Zakat Fund Taka 10,000,
[2] Purchased share: of a private limited company Taka 20;000
[3] Life Insurance: Premium paid Taka 15,000.
The company also deducted Taka 1,28,000 from his salary in the last 12 months as withholding tax
against'salary‘income.
Please compute total income. and tax liability of Mr. Faizan for the assessment year 2023-24
considering the above information.
Solution to the question 'no.10:
Comiputation, of total income. ard tax.liability of Mr: Faizan. for the assessment year 2023-24:
Name of the Assessee: Mr. Faizan
Computation of total income and tax liability
For'the Income year 2022-23 [Assessment year 2023-24]
[A] Computation of total income
Tk. Tk.. Tk.
a) a) Income. from employment:
[1] Basic pay- (Taka. 12,00,000 x 60%) 7,20,000
[2] Medical allowarice (Taka 12;00,000 x 20%) = 2,40,000.
[3] Transport allowance in cash- (Tk 12,00,000
X 15%) 1,80,000.
[4] Education allowance- (Taka 12,00,000 X 5%) 60,000.00
[5] Rent free house facility: Annual Rental value 3,10,000
[6] Deemed income:against full time car facility 1,20,000
16;30,000
Page | 272

Less: Exempted - 1/3: of income from total
employment or 450,000, whichever is lower 4,50,000:
11,80,000
[B] Income from house property:
Annual value of the house:
Rental value or reasonable ‘rent — higher one 1,20,000
(In absence of information about:reasonable
rent, it is assumed that rental value is higher
than reasonable rent)
Less: Admissible expenses
Repair and maintenance-— 25% of annual value (30,000.00)
Municipal tax: (5,000.00)
Fire Insurance premium (2,500.00)
Total allowable-éxpenses 37 500.00
82,500.00
[C] Income from Agriculture:
Sale proceeds of crops 1,20,000
Cash consideration against granting ‘right to use an nn;
land 1,60,000
2,80,000
Less: Admissible expenses
Production cost— 60% of income from
cultivation (72,000.00)
Depreciation of power'tiller (12,000.00)
Land development tax (25,000.00)
Interest on borrowed capital -2;00;000
Total allowable expenses -3,09,000
Taxable income under the head of
agricultural income (This loss is eligible to be
set off as per section'70) (29,000.00)
Nil
[D]Income from financial assets:
i) Intérest on Zero Coupon Bond [Fully tax-free
as per’6TM Schedule (Part-A) para 25]
ii) Interest on. FDR (Taka 98,100/90 X 100) 1,09,000
ii) Cash Dividend from a publicly listed company. ,
(Taka 22,500/90 X 100). 25,000.00
Taxable income from other sources of 1.34.000
income “
Total income (a+b+c+d) 13,67,500
B] Eligible investment allowance for tax credit:
Page:|'273

Investment in shares of listed company:on nn
01/01/2023 1,00,000
Life Insurance premium 15,000.00
Donation to Zakat Fund assuming Govt. Zakat 40,000.00
Fund
Actual investment | 1,25,000
15% of actual investment 18,750.00
3 % of total income 41,025.00
Eligible: investment allowance is lower of 15% of
actual investment, 20% of total income. and -
Taka 1 million. 10,00,000
Therefore, allowable investment allowance 18,750.00
C] Tax liability.
Tax on total income:
On first Taka 3,50;000 @ 0% =nil
On next Taka 1,00,000 @ 5% 5,000.00
‘On next Taka 3,00,000.@ 10% 30,000.00
On next Taka 400,000 @ 15% 60,000.00
On next Taka 2,17,500 @ 20% ‘43,500.00
Gross tax liability 1,38,500
y=‘. না 1 ay ae) redit (7 5 - 150 ~ ‘
Less: Invesiment'tax credit (1,25,000.X 15%) (18,750.00)
Tax liability. 1,19,750
Less: Tax deducted at sources:
[1] From salary 1,28,000
[2] From FDR interest 10,900.00
[3] From cash dividend 2,500.00 1,41,400
Balance tax payable/(refund) (21,650.00)
Note:
[1] Since, Mr Faizan was not the member of the RPF, his employer did not contribute anything, for this
purpose: So employer's contribution to RPF is fict.added With salary income. Similarly, investment tax
credit is also not given because there is:no contribution.
[2] Investment in shares in private. limited companies is not eligible for investment tax. rebate as per 6th
Schedule (Part-C).of ITA, 2023. So, itis not corisideréd in calculating investment tax rebate.
[3] There: is no bar to set-off agricultural loss against. income other than capital gain. So, loss from
agriculture is set-off accordingly as per:section 70 of ITA, 2023.
[4] In computing agricultural income mairitenance cost of TK. 6,000 is not deductéd because it'is already’
considered within 60% cost of production.
Page | 274

pe can en দার Ee Oe er ee
Sx Ey So eee CEJ Ee 5 (eee CI
তক WN NN
See RE NN ২ সর Circe Ea
Chapter 19
Assessment of partnership firms
|Contents
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list
191. Assessment of partnership firm TT
71927. Special provisions regarding assessment of firms রো
7193 | Procedure ofassessmentoffirms = = ~~ as
“joa Rate of'tax applicable to firm —"
না Set-off and carry forward of firm’s losses রী
1896. Computation of partners’ share:in the-firm’s profit or loss ব্লাড
লনা Liability of a firm for unrécoverable tax 00607 partners: ee
Worked exaniples:
|| Introduction
x — |llustrate the assessment of partnership firm.
2 Identify the scope of income of a firm.
দ Specify major provisions regarding the: assessment of firm.
2 Identify rates for taxing income of a firm.
" State the procedure of assessmentof income of firm and its partner.
Practical significance
Assessment of firm and tax liability computation is very significant for every assessee firm.
Assessing the income of firm and tax liability thereof is important for persons owning partnership
firm and managing it. This chapter recapitulates.the:scope of total income, non-assessable income,,.
tax credit income, grossing up of income, applicable tax rates and related issues required for
Page:|'275

completing the assessment of firms. Application of tax rebate by. partners on income from
partnership firm is exemplified. Professional accountants are required to have sufficient expertise
on all of these issues.

Stop and think

Did you realize how important is: the assessment for firms? Can you do the. assessment of firms
independently?

Working context

Assessment of tax is very important for every assessee firm. An assessee must require to be
assessed in any way. Accountants, have a great role to provide the technical assistance. to their
client. in case: of assessment. As there are many conditions, rules and procedures for different
types of assessments, accountants’ supportsometime very. significant.to complete the assessment
of their clients.

Many clients are requiring the support for correct assessment from. accountants in every year.
Detailed knowledge of'accountants on the technicalities of computation of taxable income and tax
liability thereof for individual assessee is very important in case of required support for clients’ tax
assessment.

Syllabus links

The topics covered in this chapter have the significance for professional study as you can utilize.
the knowledge throughout the application level and case study and also in your practical life.
[Examination context

Exam requirements

In the examination, candidates may be required to:

দ Do the assessment of firms and partners as well. _

= — Identify total income of a firm after deducting allowable expefises..

দ Computing investment.allowance:and tax credit. .

= Identify non-assessable. income and its:application in computing total income.

দ Identify the procedure of assessment

দ Compute net tax liability after tax rebate-due to investment allowance,

= Tax rebate at average rate on income from firm at the time of computing total income of
‘partners.

Question practice

For question practice 017 07636 topics, go to the.suggested answers covering this chapter.

19.0 ASSESSMENT OF. PARTNERSHIP FIRMS

Section overview

=> Scope of income of firm is different'from other assessee.

=> Applicable tax rate of firm is different from companies.

=> Onsome investments, the’firm enjoys investment tax rebate.

> For TDS, the firm will get.full credit at the time of computing net tax'liability.
Page | 276

> With certain terms and conditions, loss under one head can be set off against income under
another head/heads
> Ifloss under one.head cannot be set off completely, it can be carried forward to succeeding 6
years to set off against the income under the same: head.
49.1 Assessment of partnership firms
The word firm includes: a partnership firm. Like individuals, firm’s, income is also assessed to
compute tax payable by the firm. One point is very important to remember that:assessment:of
partnership firm and partners are done. separately. In tax law, partnership firm and, partners
are totally different, have different income ‘though ‘the tax rates are same with some
exceptions.
19.2 Special provisions regarding assessment of firms
A.firm can be assessed —
দ Under'section 183: Determination of tax by DCT on'the basis of return
= Under:section 184: Best judgment assessment
দ Under'section 187: Taxation of firms and individuals
« A firm can also be assessed in special cases —
দ Under:section 188: Assessment in case of change in the constitution of'a firm
n Under:section 189: Assessment in case. of constitution of new successor firm
দ Under:section 190: Assessment in case of succession of business otherwise death
» Under section 191: Assessment in case of discontinued business
19.3 Procedure of assessment of firms
As the assessment of firm and its partners are. sometimes non-detachable, it is important to
remember to assess their income separately. Otherwise, there is ‘a strong possibility of integrating
partners’ income: with that of the partnership ‘firm to Whom they are the partners. It is. advised 00
follow the procedures as mentioned below to avoid possible mistakes.
For the firm,
(1)Start with the accounting 01085 computed in partnership Profit and Loss Account.
(2)Adjust the profit in line with —
Section 45: Income:from business or profession
Section 49: Deductions from income’from business or profession
Section 55: Deduction net:admissible in certain circumstances specially section 56
(3)The profit so computed will be taxable profit of the firm and taxable in the hand of the firm.
However,.such profit (obviously before. tax) 'will be distributed among the partners: as: per their
respective profit-and loss:sharing ratio.
(4)The profit as calculated above is taxable provided that the total income exceeds the present
exemption limit, i.e., Taka 3,50,000. (assessment year 2023-24)
(5)The firm may also claim tax rebate on lower of 3% of total income or 15% of allowable.
investment (if any) or Tk: 10 lakhs like individual.
Page:|'277

For’ partners
(6)Partners’ taxable income will be: share of profit-or loss as-computed in step 3. The total income
will be taxed as per the individual tax rates. Income from firm is.to bé considered as tax free. income
because tax on'this partis already paid by the firm, and partners will get rebate at average rate on
their partnership income. from. tax so computed as per section 80 of ITA, 2023. They may also
claim rebate for qualifying amount of investment allowance, if any, in normal way.
Note: Firms may not be required to’ pay tax if'income:is less than Taka 3,50,000 or carry forward
and set-off previous: years’ losses. In such a situation, partners: will pay tax ina normal way but
cannot claim any rebate:on share of profit received from firm, as‘firm has not.paid any tax on such
profit.
19.4. Rate of tax applicable to firm
Income of a firm is taxable. at the same rate applicable to individuals which are as follows:
Applicable tax rates
On first Tk. 3,50,000 Nil
On next Tk., 1,00,000 5%
On. next Tk. 3;00,000. 10%
On next Tk. 4,00,000 15%
On. next Tk. 500,000. 20%
On balance: 25%
It is to be mentioned here that the minimum amount of tax should not be less than Taka 5,000 or
4,000-or 3,000 depending on the location if income:exceeds. Tk:3,50,000.
19.5 Set-off and carry forward of firm’s losses
(1) In case of losses sustained by a firm under any head of income shall be set off only against
the income of the firm under:any. other head and not against the income of any of the partners of
the firm [U/s70(4))].
(2) Any loss from business can be carried forward for setting of against such income, if any, for
6 consecutive years (U/s:- 70).
(3) If there is any loss from any speculation business, it should be set off in the same year against
income from other speculative businesses, it can be carried forward 66 consecutive years to 561
off only against the income from such speculative business (U/s - 70).
(4) If there is any loss-under the:head ‘capital gain’ can be carried forward for 6 consecutive years
(U/s - 70).
(5) If there is any loss under the head ‘agricultural income’ can also be-carried forward for setting
off against income from this' head for 6 consecutive years (U/s'- 70).
19.6 Computation of partners’ share in the firm’s profit or loss [section 31(2)]
To compute partner's share in the firm's profit or loss, we need to adjust any interest, salary,
commission. or remuneration. Then the balance will be distributed among the. partners as per the
réspective profit.and loss sharing ratio.. So, ‘the. share of a partner in.a firm. will be taken'to be any
salary, interest, commission or other remuneration payable to him by‘the firm in the income year
increased or decreased respectively’ by his share in the balance of the profit or loss. of the firm.
Page | 278

As per section 31(2) of ITA, 2023, if a 0910501719৪ partner in a firm or a member of an AOP, his
‘share of income of the said firm or AOP_ shall be determined by the following formula, namely -
A=B+(C-D)xE%, where. —
A= part of the person's income from the firm. or AOP,
B = salary, interest, commission or other remuneration received by the said person from the said
firm or AOP,
C.= total income of the: said firm or AOP,
D =the sum of salary, interest, commission orother remuneration payable by the said firm or AOP
to all partners or'members,,
E = the percentage of shares of'the person in the.said firm or AOP.
If the: partners have their individual income with the shared income from the firm, such. shared
income should be added With other individual income to compute the partners’ total taxable:
income. If the firm has already been taxed, partners. will not pay tax on ‘such ‘shared income:
(Section 80 of ITA, 2023). But, this addition of shared income to the partners’ other income: may
enhance the rate of tax for such other income or may bring the partners within the ambit,of taxation
where. such partners’ individual income was below thé taxable limit.
49.7 Liability of a firm for unrecoverable tax due from partners (section 255):
Where any tax payable by partner of a firm in respect of his share of the income. from the firm
cannot be recovered from him, the. Deputy Commissioner of Taxes shall notify such amount-of the
tax to the firm. Upon notification, the.firm so. notitied shall be liable to. pay the said tax:and, for the
purposes of recovery thereof: shall be deemed to be an assessee.in respect of such tax.
Worked examples
Example 1:
Ronob, Sanob and Manob are'the thrée equal partriers of Ronob & Brothers. The. profit:and loss
account for the year ended on June 30, 2023'was given below:
Ronob.& Brothers
Profit arid Loss Account
For‘theyear ended on June 30, 2023
Amount (Tk) Amount (Tk)
Office Rent. £2,000 Gross profit 8,00,000
Utilities. 48,000
Commission [including commission 88,000
paid to Partner Manob Tk.25,000]
Interest on capital:
Ronob — 30,000
Sanob —- 20,000
Manob'—'30,000 80,000
‘Salaries:
Ronob — 26,000.
Manob — 24,000 50,000
Net Profit -4,20,000
8,00,000 8,00,000
Page |'279

Other information:
1. Tax @5% was deductéd at source from office rent..
2. Tk.:25,000.of commission is given to Mr. Manob for his special assignment.
3. Partners have income from different sources. as follows:
Sources Mr. Ranob Mr. Sanob | Mr: Manob
Income from house property 1,60,000. - 1,40,000
Income from interést on securities 50,000 4,80,000 -
Agricultural income. তত 50,000
Income from-other’sources 25,000 25,000 25,000
Required:
1. Compute total income ofthe ‘firm
2. Compute tax liability of the firm.
3. Distribute firm’s income among the partners.
4. Compute total income of the. partriers.
‘5. Compute net tax liability of the partners.
Solution 1:
Requirement 1: Total income. of the firm
Particulars Amount (Tk.) | Amount,
(Tk:)
Nét profit as: per Profit and Loss A/C 4,20,000
Add: Inadmissible exp:
Distribution to the partners violating section 56:
Interest on capital:
Ronob —:30,000.
Sanob.— 20,000.
Manob - 30,000. 80,000.
Salaries:
Ronob —.26,000 ‘50,000
Manob — 24,000
Commission: 25,000 1,55,000
Manob — 25,000.
Income tax (as it is: not af expense rather appropriation of
profit and not allowed as expense under section 50) 20,000
Requirement 2: Tax liability of the firm
Income Slabs Amount (TK.)
On first Tk. 3,;50,000 0% Nil
On next Tk. 1,00,000 5% 5,000
On next Tk. 1,45,000 10% 14,500:
Page | 280

Requirement 3: Distribution of firm’s income among the Partners
Particulars Total to be
Amounts to be distributed. 5,95,000
Interest on capital 30,000 20,000 | 30,000 80,000 5,15,000
Salaries 26;000 24,000 - 50,000 4;65,000
Commission - - 25,000. 25,000 4,40,000.
Profit (allocated on 1:1:1 1,46,666) 1,46,666| 1,46,667) 4,40,000.
ratio) 2,02,666/ 1,90,666| 2,01,667) 5,95,000
Requirement 4: Total income. of the partners
Heads of Income Ron
ob
1. 50,0 | 1,80, -
ncome from interest.on securities 00} 000
2. 1,05,
ncome. from house property: (less repairs @ 25%) assuming it was let: 1,20, 000
out for residential purpose. 000. 20,0
3. 7 1,90, 00
gricultural income (less cost of cultivation @ 60%) 2:02. 666 | 2,04,
4. 666 | 25,0| 667
ncome from partnership firm 25,0 00 | 25,0
5. 00 00
ncome.from other sources 3,97, | 3,95,
Requirement 5: Net tax liability of the partners
Amount of tax
Income slab:
রা | Sanob | Manob
On first Tk. 3,50,000 0% Nil Nil Nil
On next Tk. 47,666 5% 2,383
Tk. 45,666 5% 2,283
Tk. 1,667 5% 83
2,383 2,283 83
Less: Tax rebate on firm’s income at average.
rate:
Ronob (2,02,666/3,97 ,666 x 2,383) 1,214.
Sanob (1,90,666/3,95,666 x.2,283) 1,100
Manob (2,01.,,667/3,51,667 x 83) 48
Net tax liability 1169 1183
[1] All partners:will have:to pay minimum tax as their income:exceeds the minimum taxable ceiling
depending on the location.
Page |'281.

[2] Section 55 will not be applicable for non-deduction of tax at source: from office, rent, ৪5.
partnership firm Was déducted tax properly.
Worked example 2
Asha,.Pasha, and Rasha are three equal partners of a firm, Asha, Pasha & Rasha Associates.
For the income year ended June 30,2023, the: firm produces: the following information for the:
purpose: of cOmiputing total income:and tax liability of the firm as well as its partners.
(a) The firm owns a.commercial building partly (one half) occupied by the firm to operate its own
business and partly (another half) let-out at a monthly rent of TK 35,000. Reasonable rent ofthe.
building is TK 800,000. During the year, the firm has also earned TK 40,000 as advance and TK
10,000. as first year’s rent from a company by. letting its top floor to hoard a commercial.
advertisement.
(b) The firrn is engaged with trading of garments supplies which resulted following gross margin
amount for the year:,
Particulars Amount (TK) Amount (TK)
‘Sales 5,000,000
: Cost of goods.sold Beginning inventory
800,000
+ Purchase 4,200,000
Cost of Goods available for sale 5,000,000
= Ending inventory 1,000,000
Cost of goods sold 4,000,000
Gross margin 1,000,000
(0) Other relevant information is given. below:
Stocks are always valued ‘at.2% above cost. Analysis also reveals that purchase amount is
overstated by TK 200,000 for the year. Total operating expenses charged during the period
amounted to TK 450,000 which included following items among other things: (i) Maintenance:to
building:
Amount (TK) Amount (TK)
_Let.—out portion 30,000.
Portion used ‘for business 50,000
(ii) Municipal Taxes: Total amount of municipal taxes. paid for the year was TK 40,000 out of
Which the tenant bears TK.10,000.
(iii) Annual contribution to Cotton Dealers Association, a trade association is TK 10,000.
(iv) Donation to:charitable hospital was TK 50,000.
(v) All thé partners were active and ‘took. part in running business. Salaties paid to’the partners
were’ TK 40,000 to.Asha, TK 50,000 to Pasha and TK 30,000 to Rasha.
(vi) Legal charges amount to a total of TK 50;000 including a fine.of TK 10,000 charged due to its:
attachment with illegal form of business.
(vii). The’firm charged TK:15,000 against profit to write-off uncollectible amount of receivable which
is not allowed by the DGT.
(viii) The firm incurred a loss: of TK 50,000 from spéculative business.
(ix) Accounting depreciation charged was, TK 38,000 which was TK 3,000 higher than tax.
depreciation.
Page | 282

(0) Asha had ‘no other income duririg the year; however, Pasha and Rasha were.also partners of
another firm. The respective income of Pasha and Rasha from the firm for the year ended 301
June 2023 .are as under:
Profit/ (Loss)
Pasha ‘TK 40,000 TK 10,000 ‘TK (50,000)
Rasha: TK 60,000 TK 20;000 TK.20,000
(6) Rasha had income from interest on approved commercial securities of TK 30,000. Bank:
charged TK 300 as collection fee and TK 3,000 as interest on money borrowed from the bank for
investment in approved commercial securities.
Compute tax liability of ‘Asha, Pasha .& Rasha Associates’ for the assessment year 2023-24 and
total income in the hands of partners from. all sources..
Solution 2
(a) Computation of total income of the firm:
(1) Income from house property (U/s - 36)
Annual value
Actual rent (12 months @ TK'35,000) 420,000
brne bythe tenants or ; - 40,000.
Reasonable rent (800,000/2) 430,000
Whichever is higher 400,000
Less: রা 430,000
repairs and maintenance (30% of.annual value) 429.000
municipal tax for let-out portion (1/2 of 40,000) 20 000
149,000
Net income‘from house property. 281,000
Page |283

) Income. from business (u/s - 45) Gross
profit as per Trading Account 1,000;000
Add: Overstatement of opening stock
(TK 800,000/1.02*0:02) 15,686
Overstatement of purchase 200.000
_ ট 7 215,686
Less: Overstatement:of Closing Stock
(TK 1,000,000/1.02*0.02) 19 608
196,078
1,196,078
Léss: Operating expenses 450.000
746,078
Add: Inadmissible Expenses.
1.Contribution to. Aga Khan Dev. Network’ | 50,000
2.Municipal tax— % 20,000
3.Salaries to partners u/s 56 1,20,000
4.Legal charges 10,000
5.Bad debt Write-off which is not allowed 15,000.
6.Loss on speculative transactions 50,000
7.Accounting depreciation 38.000 3.03.000
Less: Admissible expenses 10,49;078
Tax depreciation 35.000
Net income from business 10,14,078
(3) Income from other sources (U/s - 66)
From display of advertisement 50,000
Total income of'the firm 13,45,078.
Computation of investment allowance:
Actual:
Donation to Charitable hospital (50,000 x 15%) Tk. 7,500
Maximum limit:
3% of total income, i.€., 3% of 13,45,078 = Tk. 40,352
Or Tk: 10,00,000 whichever'is less
Qualifying amount for investment allowance Tk. 40,352
Computation of tax liability of the firm:
‘On first Tk. :3,50,000 0% Nil
On next Tk. 1,00,000 5% 5,000
On next Tk. 3,00,000 10% 30,000
‘On next Tk. 4,00;000 15% 60,000
On néxt Tk. 1,95,078 20% 48,769
On total Tk. 13,45,078 1,43,769
Less: tax rebate on investment.allowance 40,352
Net tax liability
Page | 284

Allocation of profit among the partners:
Particulars Total left to be
Amounts to be distributed -
Salaries 40,000 50,000 30,000 | 1,20;000 13,45,078
Profit (allocated on 1:1:1 ratio) 4;08,359 | 4,08,359| 4,08,359 | 12,25;078 | 12,25,078
Total amount allocated
Total Income iin the hands of the partners:
| CHa ofincome | Asha_— |S Pasha | sRasha_|
1. Income from this. firm 438,359
2. Income from another firm 4,48,359 4,58,359 1,00,000
3. Income from interest on securities 26,700
Total income 4,48,359
Page:|'285

ee — | GO. (LE, lar = =
LET ৬৯ ০ ক Ee 3 ieee (Goss
১২১২২ oN SSS SRN all _ রে ER yt :
Chapter 20

Assessment of companies
|\Contents |
Introduction

Examination context

Topic list
20.2 | Method of accounting |
20. 3 _|_Residential.status of companies oe
20.4 | Submission ofretun nny
| 20.5 | Set-off and carry forward of losses oe
20.6 | Return of tax deducted at source ee
20.7 Advance payment of tax nl
20.8 | Applicable tax rates for companies oe
20.9 _ ~ Tax credit ee
20.10 | Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) ee

Worked examples

\|__Introduction |
s Define different type of companies.

a Illustrate the: assessment of companies.

" Identify the:scope of income of companies.

দ্র Specify: major provisions regarding the assessment of companies.

Identify rate for tax on varieties of income of a company..

R State the procedure of assessment of company's income. _ ;

= Specify the special provisions of assessing income. of bank, insurance ard. leasing
companies.
Page | 286

Practical significance

Corporate assessment is full of complexities that require special skill to handle.. Understanding
corporate accounting and converting it in line with the requirements of'tax. authorities is the first
hurdle. Assessable income, non-assessable income, rebate, application of CSR, applying different
rates for capital gain, dividend income and other income:are some of the complexities.

As professional accountants mostly serve corporate houses, this chapter becomes. mostly
significant for them. Again, corporate: tax planning, now-a-days, becomes a norm which
necessitates extra skill on part of the qualified accountants. Government also requires this type. of
services from professional accountants due to the reasoning of maximizing its income.

Other common requirements like TDS, set-off and carry’forward of losses, DTAA, grossing up of
income.are also:applied in this chapter.

Stop and think

Did you realize that the assessment of companies is very important from every perspective? Are
you confident:enough to do the assessment of companies. independently?

Working context

Assessment of tax is very important for every classes of assessee. An assessee must require to:
be assessed in any way:.Accountants have:a great role to provide the 'technical:assistance to their
client. in case: of assessment. As there are many conditions, rules and ‘procedures for different
types of assessments, accountants’ support sometime very significant to complete the assessment
of their'clients. In case of corporate client,.this chapter becomes very significant.

Many companies are requiring the support,for correct assessment from accountants in every year.
Detailed Knowledge of accountants on the. technicalities of computation of total income and tax.
liability thereof for corporate assessee is important in case of required support for tax:assessment.
Syllabus links

The topics covered in this chapter have the: significance for professional study as you can utilize:
the knowledge throughout the application level and case study and.also in your practical life.
[Examination context

Exam requirements

In the examination, candidates may be required to:

a Do the assessment of corporate house.

z Identify total income of a company after adjusting expenses.

i Computing tax rebate. in different scénario.

R Identify non-assessable income and its application in computing total income.

a Identify the procedure of assessment.

z Compute net tax liability after giving tax credit. .

= Do the spécialized assessment of bank, insurancé and leasing :companiés.

Page: |'287

Question practice.

For question practice on these topics, go to the.suggested answers covering this chapter:

20.0 ASSESSMENT OF COMPANIES

Section overview

> Scope of income for company is different-fromi other assessee.

> Applicable tax rates for company are different from. other assessee..

> Capital gain and dividend income of companies are taxable at different rates.

> Assessment of banks, insurance and leasing companies are to some extent different.

> Companies will enjoy'tax rebate for CSR activities in specific:areas.

> Company assessee will enjoy some common benefits like set-off and carry forward of
losses, tax rebate, TDS. adjustments, credit of advance tax etc.

20.1 Companies

Assessment of companies means applying the assessment procedures on the income. of
companies. Company has a definite meaning in the Income Tax Act, 2023. For the purpose of
company tax assessment, some related definitions ate produced below:

"Company" means a company as:defined in the Companies Act, 1994 and includes -

(a) liaison office, representative office or branch office of a foreign company;

(8). fixed establishment-of-a foreign entity or person; _ রর

(0) 81%899008001) or body incorporated by or Under the laws of a country outside Bangladesh;
(0) any bank, insurance or financial institutions; _

(6) any industry and trade organization, foundation, society, cooperative society and any
educational institution; oe

(f) any ofganization registered with NGO Bureau or Micro Credit Regulatory Authority;

(g) any firm, association of persons, joint venture; or combination of persons, called by whatever
name, if any’ of such persons. is a company as defined in the Companiés Act, 1994 or a foreign
entity;

(h) statutory government authority; local authority, autonomous body;

(i) a body corporate. established or-constituted by or under any law for the time being in force;
(j). all entities. other than natural person, ‘firm, association of persons, trust, hindu. undivided
family, and funds;

(k) any foreign association or body, not incorporated by or'under any law, which the Board may,
by general or special order, declare'to be ৪ company for the purposes of this Act.

Companies Act 1994 defines ‘company’ to mean a company formed and registered under the act
or an existing company [U/s — 2(c) of Companies Act, 1994]. Again, ‘existing company’ means a
company formed and registered under any law relating to companies in force at. any time before.
the commencement of the act, and is in operation after commencement of the act [U/s — 2(h) of
Companies Act, 1994].

However, at the time of prescribing the rate of taxes, companies are classified as —
Page | 288

1) Bank, Insurance, Financial Institutions
2) Merchant Bank:
3) Mobile Phone Operator Company
4) Publicly traded company:
5) Non-publicly traded company
6) Tobacco Manufacturing Company
7) One.Person Company(OPC)
As per the provision of Income. Tax Act, coriputing profit.and loss. for some. specialized business
shall be as follows:

দ 4th Schedule.- Computation ofthe profits and gains of insurance. business.

দ 5th Schedule—Part 1 Computation of profits and gains from the exploration.and production

of petroleum and the determination of the tax thereon
» 5th Schedule—Part 2 Computation of profits arid gains from the exploration and extraction,
of mineral deposits (other'than oil-and gas) in Bangladesh
Due to the typical nature of business, Income Tax Act prescribes different methods:of computation
of profit anid loss from these businéssés..
Whatever the definitions or classifications made, profits or gains from any type: of companies are:
taxable at specified rates.
20.2 Method of accounting
Section 73 of ITA, 2023 requires every company, any firm, association of persons, fund having
turnover exceeding Tk. 3. crore and person having income form long term contract shall submit
income’statement and balance sheet for the income year, and certified by a chartered accountant
to the effect that ‘the accounts: are. maintained and the statements are prepared and reported in
accordance with International Accounting Standards, ‘the Intérnational Financial Reporting
Standards, related laws. of Bangladesh for the time being in force and in accordance with the
spécific standards set oUt be: the Board time. to ‘time, and are audited by in accordance: with the:
Bangladesh Standards on Auditing.
As per Section 75(2), where accounts of a taxpayer have not prepared and maintained in
accordance with the provision 06056080017 73, DCT can compute tax on such basis;and such manner
he/she thing fit:
So it is very important that’ before taking any action undér Section 75(2) the DCT need to
demonstrate that a non-compliance: of Section 73 has actually occurred..
20.3 Residential status of companies:
Residential status: of companies is different from.an individual and Income. Tax Act prescribes
different rules for that. On the basis of residential status applicable. for companies, there may be
Bangladeshi or foreign companies. The provisions for deciding the residential status, of companies:
are given below:
"Resident", in respect ofany income year, means a Bangladeshi company or‘any other company
the control and management of whose affairs is situated wholly in Bangladesh in that year [section—
Page |'289

2(45)(c)]. And, "non-resident" means:a person who is not.a resident [section — 2(4)]. Thus, to be

resident:

1. The company should be a Bangladeshi company, 1:93 formed and registered under the
Comipanies.Act, 1994 and includes:a body corporate established or constituted by. or Under-any
law for the time being in force in Bangladesh having in ‘either case: its registered office in
Bangladesh; or

2. Any other company the control and management of ‘whose affairs are situated wholly in
Bangladesh in that year.

If any of the two conditions have not been fulfilled, the status of such a company will be non-
resident.
20.4-Submission of return
A.company assessee:shall have to file return. of income setting forth therein its total income by'the:
15TM day of the 7 month following the end of ‘the income year, or the 15" day of September
following the end of income year where: the said 15" day falls before the 15". day of September:
The return should be prepared in a prescribed form by inserting necessary descriptions and
information, attaching schedules, staternents, accounts, annexures, and documents,. and signed.
by the principal officer as defined in section 2(54) of ITA, 2023.
20.5 Set-off and carry‘forward of losses and unabsorbed depreciation
Where a loss is assessed under any specific head of income, the company is permitted to set-off
the loss against its income assessed under different heads in the same. year. However, losses:
incurred under the categories of capital gains, business, speculative business, or losses related to
the business of tobacco. products cannot be’set-off against any income from other heads. In cases
where the loss cannot be entirely set-off, the remaining unabsorbed loss will be carried forward
and set-off against income under:'the same heads over six consecutive assessment:years.

Moreover, losses:from any sources or heads'where tax is:exempted, or'where tax is applied at a

reduced rate, or where they are subject to a minimum tax:requirement, cannot.be set-offor carried

forward.

Unabsorbed depreciation can be carried forward for an unlimited period. It is important'to fote that

losses shall be carried forward and set-off first; subsequently, unabsorbed depreciation needs to

be utilized for set-off until it is fully absorbed.

20.6 Return of tax deducted at source

In accordance with the section 177 of the ITA, 2023, every company including other: withholding.

entities, shall file a return of tax deducted or collected at source (also called as withholding tax) to

the DCT where the company is being assessed. Such return shall be prepared in the prescribed
form and signed and verified by the principal officer-ofthe. company. Such return shall be filed by

15!" day of the next:month following the month of deduction.

However, the last date.for'the submission of return may. be extended by the DCT 01700 to 15 days.

Page | 290

20.7 Advance payment of tax
Every company’shall have to pay’advance tax in four equal installments falling on 15'" September,
15 December.; 15'" March and 151 June of each financial year if the: latest assessed income
exceeds Tk. 6,00,000. However, cigarette manufacturing company will pay advance: tax monthly
@ 3% on net.sale.
On failure of payment of any installment, the:company will be deemed to be an assessee in default.
Penalty may be imposed for such default. If a company estimates that its income during any
financial year will be: less; than the last assessed income, it may submit:an estimate of income and
pay the advance tax accordingly.

If the amount of advance tax together with the tax deducted at.source; if'any, is less than 75% of
the tax payable on the basis. of régular.assessment, simple interest @10% per annum is léviable
on the amount by which the tax 5০ paid and deducted falls short of 75% of the assessed tax. On’
the other hand, the company is entitled to receive interest @10%. on the. amount by: which the.
aggregate sum of advance tax paid during a financial year exceeds the.amount of the tax payable.
on the basis of regular assessment. However, interest will be 50% higher if the person failed to
submit return on or before the Tax Day.

20.8 Applicable tax rates for companies
Charge of minimum tax: section 163(5)
Notwithstanding anything contained in any other ‘provisions of ITA, 2023, every company including
person having minimum Tk. 3. crore gross receipt and firm or association of person having
minimum Tk. 50,00,000 gross receipt, shall, irrespective of its profits orloss.in an assessment year
for'any reason whatsoever, including the-sustaining of a loss, the setting off of a loss of earlier year
of years or the claiming of allowances or deductions (including 06116018017) allowéd under ‘this:
Act, be liable to pay minimum tax @ 0.60% of the amount representing gross receipts from all
sources for that year. However, the rate of minimum tax for tobacco manufacturing company is:
3%, carbonated beverage 3%. and for mobile phone operator 2%..
Moreover, if any new industry engaged in manufacturing of goods, then ‘the rate will be 0.10%
instead of 0.60%. which would be effective for first 3 years.
For the purposes of this section, 'gross receipts’ means-
(a) all receipts derived from the sale of goods;
(b) all fees or charges for rendering services ‘or giving benefits including commissions or
discounts;
(c) all receipts derived from any heads of income.
Illustration
Xerox Machine Ltd. is a Private Limited Company registered in Bangladesh. Following information
are related to the income year 2022-23:

Net operating income Tk. 12,50,000.

Interest income 71. 2,50,000

Total income: Tk. 15,00,000
Sales revenue / turnover for the. year is reported at Tk. 2,00,00,000. Applicable income tax rate is
27.5%. Calculate tax liability of Xerox Machine Ltd. forthe assessment year 2023-24.

Page |'291

Solution:

Income tax at'regular rate i.e., 27.5% is. Tk. 4,12,500 (15,00,000 X.27.5%).

Gross receipts of the company: (Tk. 2,00,00,000 + Tk. 250,000) = Tk. 2,02,50,000

Minimum tax = (Tk.'2,02,50,000 X 0.60%) = Tk. 1,21,500.

Since, the regular tax is greater than the. minimum tax; the tax liability of Xerox Machine Ltd. will
be Tk. 4,12,500.

Corporate tax rate ata glance

Conditional Listed company tax rate 20% for the assessment year 2023-24: 20%
[1] More than 10% paid-up capital through IPO

[2] All sales/receipts: must beé:through banking charinel

[3] In case of investment:and expenditure, per transection exceeding Tk. 5,00,000 must

be through banking channel and altogether yearly transection exceeding Tk.36,00,000

must be‘through banking channel.

Violation of serial number 2 &.3 will lead to tax rate 22.5%

Conditional Listed. company tax rate 22.5% for the assessment year'2023-24:

22.5%

[1]10% orléss than 10% paid-up capital through IPO

[2] All sales/receipts: must be:through banking channel

[3] In case of investment;and expenditure, per transection exceeding Tk. 5,00,000 must

be through banking channel and altogether yearly transection exceeding Tk:36,00,000

must be-through banking channel.

Violation of sérial. number 2 & 3 will lead to tax rate 25%

Conditional One Person Company tax rate. 22.5% for the assessment year 2023- 22.5%
24:

[1] All sales/receipts: must 66: 0170087 banking charinel

[2] In case of investment and expenditure, per transection exceeding Tk. 5;00,000 must

be through banking channel and altogether yearly transection exceeding Tk.36,00,000

must be‘through banking channel.

Violation of serial number 1 &.2 will lead to tax rate 25%

Conditional tax rate of non-listed companies for the assessment year 2023-24. 27.5%
[1] All salés/receipts must be through banking channel

[2] In case of investment.and expenditure, per transection exceeding Tk. 5,00,000 must

be through banking channel and altogether yearly transection exceeding Tk:36,00,000

must be.through banking channel

Violation of the above: conditions will lead to tax rate: 30%
Page | 292

631715, 791 81706 and other financial institutions: (except merchant'banks) if not publicly 40%
listed
Banks, insurance and other financial institutions (except merchant banks) if publicly 37.5%
listed
Merchant banks 37.5%
Cigarette, zarda, bidi, gul or any other tobacco product manufacturing 45%
companies (companies, firms and individuals) irrespective of listing status,
Income surcharge in addition to above tax is applicable on business income. 2.5%
Mobile phone operator companies if not publicly listed
Mobile phone operator companies that convert themselves into a publicly traded. 40%.
company by transfer of at least 10% shares through stock exchanges, of which
maximum 5% may be through Pre-Initial Public Offering Placement
[If mobile phone operator companies list at least 20%. of their paid up capital through
IPO, they shall receive a rebate of 10% in the year of listing.
Association of persons 27.5%
Cooperative societies registered under Cooperative Society Act, 2001
Private universities, Private medical college,. Private dental college, Private. engineering 15%
college or Private college engaged in imparting education on information technology
lf any assessee.owned any small and medium industry engaged in the. production of goods.at less:
developed area or least developed area, it will enjoy tax rebate-at a rate as mentioned below:
Particulars Rate of rebate.
If production in volume exceeds 15% but does not exceed 25%-as: compared| 5% of tax on’such
with preceding year. income
If production in volume: exceeds 25% as compared with preceding year. 10% of tax on such
income
20.9 Corporate Social Responsibility [SRO 229- dated 04-07-2011, SRO.223 dated 27/06/2012
and SRO 186- dated 01-07-2014]
Allowable limit: Maximum limit of allowable. expenditure under the head Corporate. Social
Responsibility (CSR) is 20% of total income or Tk. 12,00,00,000; or actual CSR whichever is lower.
If actual expenditure exceeds this: limit, such amount exceeding ‘the. limit cannot be used to
compute tax rebate.
Tax rebate: Tax rebate will be:;computed @:10% on such expenditure for CSR within the: maximum
limit.
Conditions: To claim tax rebaté against’‘CSR, the company must fulfill the following conditions:
1. Must pay salaries:and allowances to its‘ worker regularly and must have waste treatment plant
if it involves with the production of ‘industrial. goods;
2. Must.pay income tax, VAT and duty timely and must repay institutional loans;
3. Can only donate money to the institutions recognized by the government for the purpose of
CSR;
4. Must fulfill all rules as. per Bangladesh Labour Law, 2006.
‘5. Amount.spentfor CSR will not:be considered as: business expendittire.
6. Documents in support of actual CSR expenditure to be submitted to the concerned DCT.
7. Submit CSR plan to NBR.and obtain exemption certificate.
Page |'293

However, no-company can charge:such expenditure:on account of CSR in. manufacturing or profit
and loss-account. Such company shall also submit sufficient décuments with DCT to prove whether
the expenditure.claimed as CSR is really spent.

Areas of CSR

To encourage the: companies to contribute: towards the society, a new provision has been

introduced in.2009 through an SRO and thereafter the area has been expanded in 2010 and further

modified in 2011.In the year 2012 two new areas have been included and one area shifted to 6!"

Schedule (Part-A) Para-47: In 2014-one new area has: been added. The present areas.are:

1. Donation through any government bodies to reduce the misery of people-of areas. affected by
natural calamities like. Cyclone, Earthquake, Hurricane, Flood etc:;

2. Donation to the institutions engaged in the establishment of old home and. its management;

3. Donation to any social organization engaged in the Welfare. of mentally or-physically disable
people;

4. Donation tothe educational institutions engaged in educating street./ homeless children;

5. Donation to:such institutions engaged in housing projects for people living in slums;

6. Donation to social organizations involved in building public awareness on women-right and
against dowry system: :

7. Donation to-organizations. involved in feeding and rehabilitating orphan / homeless children;

8. Donation to organizations involved in research on liberation war, campaign to uphold the spirit
of liberation war and. welfare of freedom fighters;

9. Donation to organizations engaged in maintaining healthy sewerage systems in Chittagong
hill tract, alluvial land, river breakage areas;

10. Donation to:organizations engaged in the treatment of hare-lipped, cataract; cancer, leprosy;

11. Donation to individuals and organizations:engaged in providing Medicare sérvices to the Acid
Victims

12. Donation to specialized hospital providing free medical services to poor patients and work'for
improving the quality of treatment e. g., hospitals for Cancer, Lever, Kidney, Thalassemia,
Eye and Cardio.

13. Donation to public:universities;

14. Donation to. any government recognized educational institution established for providing
educational scholarship:and financial assistance to poor freedom fighters’ children along with
promoting technical and vocational, education to the poor merlTArious students; -

15. Donation to government or MPO: included private educational institution engaged in
establishing lab for training computer or IT or implementing English education programs:

16. Donation to organizations engaged in providing technical and vocational training ‘to unskilled
or semi-skilled workers for exporting manpower;

17. Donation to organizations engaged in'thé.development of infrastructure and training for:sports
at national level;

418. Donation to. national levél. museum establishéd.or to be established for preserving the: memory
of education war;

19. Donation ‘to national level institutions engaged in protecting the memory of the father of the
nation; and

20. Donations made to non-profit voluntary social welfare organizations engaged for running
rehabilitation center, creation of awareness and treatment of HIV, AIDS and Drug addicted

21. Donations made to non-profit voluritary social welfare organizations engaged for runnirig
rehabilitation center for recovered children/women of cross boarder trafficking.

22. Donation to Govt. approved furid for helping Victims: of natural disaster or for ariy tournament’
or for any national level program.

Page | 294

20.11 Scope of income of a company
Income of a company should be computed with reference to the following sections:
Section 45: Income from business
Section 46: Special areas of business income
Section 49: General allowable deductions in computation of income from business
Section 50: Special allowable deduction in computation of income'from business
Section 55: Deduction not:admissible in certain circumstances
However, ‘company: may have income ‘from following:sources with respect to-application of tax:
b) Dividend income
০) Capital gain
d) Other income
Worked examples and solutions
Example 1
Mis: John’ Morris Inc.iis @-multinational. company doing business in Bangladesh. The companyfiled,
return, of income: for: the: :assessment -year 2023-24 showing net. income ‘of 116. 30,00,000..
‘Examination of the'.audited: statement of -accounts. filed: with’. the: return of ‘income:revealed the
following:
(a), Salary,includes:Tk. 3;30;000 paid:to'one Director working:at:the head office:at California. .He
never visited Bangladesh’ and"no’ tax;:as*such; has’ been deducted‘at the time’of making’ the;
payrient., - -
aud|TArs':certificate:
(0) Fine-of-Tk.11,000 paid.for-violation, of customs law:charged.to/P 8!L Account:.
(0) iTWo' Nissan‘Petroli Jeep ‘purchased for Tk.:55;00,000;eachi during the year. Depreciation @
10%-chargedion the ‘full-cost-of, the. vehicles.
(6)! To. procure-business Tk.10;00;000. has been’paid-as:commission: to a iocal-agent. In making,
thé payméiit’ thie Provision Of'séction’94-Of thé Income Tax. Act! :2023:has riot béén‘ coniplied with;
(6), The compariy sold:a motor vehicle for. Tk: 4/65,000.. Original::costiof the vehicle was Tk.
'5,25:000 and'the: WDV. was: Tk: 3;25;000. ‘This,has‘not.been:reflected in the:accounts.
(9) iTk:15;000.‘donated :to.an‘un-recognized-school:.
(h). Miscellaneous: expenses ‘include: Tk, ‘7;22,000, paid as salaries to three’servants:who are
workingiat the:residence‘of;the Managing’ Director.
(i) ‘Conveyance: éxpensés: includé Tk. 3,20:000: ipaid for air ticket of wife ‘and ‘sor’ of the:
0) _ -Interest'expense claimed:at Tk. 33,50;0002 The company has:outstandihg-bank loan. of Tk.
2.10: crore: The. company advanced! Tk. ‘75,00;000; interést-free: loan to.a) sistérzconcern ‘in
Bangladesh:
Fronythe above ‘information:compute: the, total.income, of the. company for tax:purpose:

Page |'295

M/s‘John Morris lnc.

Compitationiof total income

Assessment. year 2023-24 .
Particulars: Amount(Tk:)| ‘Amount*(Tk:):
Add: Inadmissible.expenses on.
Director's salary:{55(a)} [Note-1). 330,000
Donation: to, an‘un=recognized‘school! 15;000:
Excéssiperquisites:{55(f)}'[noté:7] 42:000
Fine for-violation:of:customs' law: [note=2] 11000:
Head:office expense [note-8] 4:400,000:} :3:334:428
-Adjusted:profit: 6,334,429

Notes:
reference to section 119:

(2): Fine or penalty; for.breach.of law‘is‘not allowable expenditure. u/s 49'and 54: of ITA;2023.

(3) lnterest.omborrowed capital is allowed when taken:for businessipurposes. ‘But borrowed fund,
was. given to the sister;concern which is.not.used'for:the company’s business:and therefore,
proportionate interest:has been:disallowed'as'per:section 52 of ITA,;2023..

(4): Section’94’of ITA; 2023 ‘requires: deduction. of.tax.at Source on the ‘payment of. commission for
“wrong in this,case, nothing to:be disallowed:

(6): Difference between’sale proceeds of the motor vehicle’and:its WDV of Tk. 1,40;000'is:business

(6), Under the Third Schedule-for depreciation purpose: cost:ofeach:motor vehicle is:restricted'to.
Tk:, 30,00,000 seach: and; 10% ‘depreciation: on‘ two”cars' therefore ‘should:.be: Tk. 6,00,000,
whéreas:‘on TK. 55:00:000: the? company. claimed ‘depreciation ‘of ‘TK.. 1'1;00;000..So0° excess:
depreciation‘of Tk. 5:00,000. has been added back.

(00: Servant's.salary-and.travel ticket fare.are ‘perquisites to the. managing director of.a total sum of

~ -Tk.7,22;000+TK:3,20,000= 10;42;000: ‘As:ipen’section’ 55(d) perquisites: are’ allowable ‘up..to:
বা 0;00;000 per employee per year: Therefore,.théexcéss perq uisités of Tk..42;000 has beén’
added back.

(8): Head 'officetexpense is:allowed:up, to: 10%:of the’disclosed:net. profit.u/s, 55(f)..

Worked example 2

The profit and loss account:of Care Pharmaceuticals for the year ended-on June 30,.2023 reports

net income of taka 20,00,000. A scrutiny of accounts and supporting documents revealed. the:

following facts:

(a) During the year'the company sold somé of its pharmaceutical supplies that’ remained unused
for a long time in the storeroom. The company sold the supplies at a loss of'taka 150,000 as
‘the. expiry period is very close and charged such loss against current year’s profit.

Page | 296

(b) The. company recovered taka 20,000 from bad debt which was written off in earlier year and
was allowed by the tax authority. The amount so recovered is credited to sundry debtors
account.

(c) Unpaid bank iriterest of Tk.80,000 to Bangladesh Development Bank. Ltd. since income ‘year
2017-2018 and such interest was allowed as allowable deduction during that'year. Still, such
interést remains unpaid.

(0) The: company has a trading liability with one overseas company to the tune of taka 1,50,000
Which has been totally waived by. the overseas company under’special agreement during this
year.

(6) During the year, the company‘sold one equipment for taka 1,80;000 which. was purchaséd at
a total cost:of taka 1,30,000 and had a WDV of taka 90,000 on:the date of sale. The company
reports taka 90,000 as-gain on sale-of equipment in the credit:side of profit and loss, account:

(f) Due to a sudden fire on the factory building, the extended portion of the building is totally
destroyed and compensation received from the insurance. company total taka .2,50,000. In
addition,. the: company realized an additional sum of taka 30,000 by selling the: scrap. The
extension of the building was constructed at a total cost of taka 4,00,000 and depreciation
charged to date amounts‘to taka. 50,000.

(g) The.company sold a scientific apparatus used for'scientific research for taka 80,000 which was
originally purchased at taka 1,50,000. and fully depreciated. The-sale proceed is not recorded
at.all.

(h) The company'‘had export quota for exporting garments to EU countries. As thé compari has
recently changed the line of operation (switched from garments manufacturing to
pharmaceuticals), it transferred the export:quota to another garment manufacturer for a-sum
of taka 70,000. This income is not reported at all.

(i) The.company is entitled initial depreciation taka 5,00,000 for new machinery. installed:and run
‘commercial production during thé year but they did not claim any initial depreciation.

(j) Incentive bonus paid to the field representatives at the rate of 4 month’s pay taka 3,00,000.
But the general practice of giving incentive bonus for the similar business is two month’s pay.

(k) Sum of'taka 1,20,000 donated to an institution for scientific research which is not approved by
NBR.

(1) Sum of taka: 5,00,000 expended for establishing a hospital for the benefit of employees. The
health befiefit Was provided by the company Without taking any chargé from the employees.

(m).Salary of taka 5,00,000 and rent of taka 80,000 were. paid without deducting tax at.source.

(n) Payment of brokérage and commission. of taka 60,000 made to a non-resident. without
deducting tax at source.

(0) Annual perquisites enjoyed by MD, Chairman and 5 members of Board of Directors amounted
to taka. 74,50,000.

(p) Normal. accounting depreciation charged taka 2,50,000 but tax depreciation amounts to taka
3,00,000 excluding the amount of initial depreciation on machinery.

(0) Value of the free sample distributed clairied taka 2,00,000. Annual turnover during the ‘year
was taka 80,00,000: :

(0 Gash salary & rent paid Tk: 100,000

(s) Sum of taka 50;000 expended to train employees (Bangladeshi citizen) in connection with a
scheme approved by. the Board.

(t) The. company expended, a sum of taka 2,00,000 for visits abroad as a member of trade
delegation sponsored by the government.

(u) Annual membership .fee-of taka 1,50,000 is paid to Bangladesh Pharmaceutical Society which
is a. professional body recognized by the: Board.

(v) Expenditure on publicity and advertisement during the year taka 3,00,000.

(w) Entertainment claimed ‘taka 1,50,000..

Required: Compute the total income of the company for the assessment year 2023-24.

Page |'297

Solution 2:
Care Pharmaceuticals
Status: Resident Company
Income: year: 2022-23 [Assessment year: 2023-24]
Income from business :
Net profit as: per Profit-& Loss.Account 2,000,000
Add: Inadmissible expenses.
Excess bonus paid to field representatives: [note:9] 100,000
Payment for scientific research not approved by NBR 120,000
Salary and rent paid without TDS 580,000
Payment to non-resident without TDS 60,000
Excess perquisites [note-1:1] 450,000
Accounting depreciation for separate consideration 250,000
Excess amount of free sample ceiling [note=12]i 40,000
Cash salary & rent [note-13]. , - 100,000 1,700,000
3,700,000
[ 699: Expenses admissible
Initial depreciation on machinery (1১ year) 500,000
Tax depreciation (normal) 300;000
Loss of fire [3,50,000-2,80,000] [note-6] 70,000 870,000
2,830,000
Add: Income not.credited to P/L Account
Bad debt recovered [note-2] 20,000
BDBL interest due but not paid within’3 years [note:3]| 80,000
Waiver of.a trading liability [note-4]’ - : 150,000
Sale proceeds of scientific apparatus [note:7]| 80,000
Income from transferring export quota [note-8]: 70,000 400,000
3,230,000
Add: Revenue profit on sale of equipment 40,000
Less: Gain on sale of equipment [note-5] (90,000)
Add: Entertainment'to be considered separately 150,000
Less: Admissible entertainment [note-14] (86,600)
Taxable income under the head business : 3,243,400.
Capital gain 50,000
_ Total income 3,293,400
Notes:
1. Loss on Sale of supplies 15: ৪7 allowable deduction because supplies. doés not fall under thé definition
of capital asset as per section 2077).
2. Amount of bad debt recovered will be treated as current year’s:income and should be credited to the.
profit and loss account, because bad debt was allowed earlier as-expense.
3. As the interest due to Bangladesh Development Bank Ltd. is not paid within ’3 years, such interest will
be deemed to be current:year’s:income u/s:46(7).
4. As the company received waiver of a trading liability during this year, it should be treated as deemed
income u/s 46(8):
5. Computation of total gain, Capital Gain and Revenue Gain from the-sale of equipment:
Page | 298

Partita | TT
| 1. |Saleproceeds 180,000 |
| 2. |iitialcosts 10,000 |
3. [2৪090275000]
| 6. |Revenuegain(24) 040,000 |
|__| Gain on sale of equipment as shown in P/L Account(1-4) |_| 90,000

6. As the insurance compensation récéived taka 2,50,000 plus Scrap value: TK. 30,000 is less than the.
amount of written’ down value of the building taka 3,50,000, the difference Tk.70,000 will be deducted
from business income as per provision of Para 10(c) of 3 schedule.

7. Sale proceeds of the.asset used for scientific: research shall be the deemed income:in the year of sale.
under section 19(20).

8. As export value is not given: in the question, so 3% of export value is not possible to be taken as
income as per Rule-30A. There'is. no way to take different amount as income other than income‘shown
by‘the company and that's why shown income is accepted.

9. After allowing 10% of disclosed net profit Tk. 2,00,000, the rest Tk.1,00,000 disallowed as excess
incéntive bonis as per section 300),

410. The-amount spent for hospital is allowable deduction as it'charges nothing after giving services to the:
employees.

11. Allowable. amount: of perquisites to MD, Chairman and 5 Directors will be taka 70,00,000 (taka
10,00,000 x 7). Thus, excess. amount of perquisite taka 4,50,000 (taka 74,;50,000 — taka 70,00,000)
to be disallowed.

12. The. allowable rate of free sample for a pharmaceutical industry is. 2% for:annual turnover 007০ taka
‘5 crore. The turnover of the company was taka 80,00,000 and free sample allowed is taka 1,60,000
(2% of taka 80,00,000). Thus, excess amount of taka40,000 (taka 2,00,000 — taka: 1,60;000) is
disallowed.

13. [nadmissible:expenses as salary and rent. paid without bank:transfer u/s 55.

14: Amount of admissible entertainment allowance:

On the first 10,00,000 At 4% 40,000
On the balance 23,30;,000 At 2% 46,600
Total 86,600

Worked example'3

The profit and loss account of Star Ltd. a listed Public Limitéd Company is given below for the

income year 2022-23..

Star Ltd.
Profit and Loss Account
For the year ended on June.30, 2023
Interest on Foreign Investment 20,000
Bonin asap] nena | AA
Page |'299

=
Determine the taxable income of the company and net tax liability thereof. Consider the given data
below and. assume that:
[1] Salaries are paid in cash without any cheque or bank transfer. Tk.4,50,000 of salaries
fromTk:.7,00,000.
[2] Tax depreciation amounts to Tk. 50,000
[3] Legal expenses are paid due to the infringement of trademarks
[4] The company has.sold an asset. for Tk.1,00,000 that the company has purchased .4 years
back. at:a cost of Tk.80,000 with a written down value of Tk.60;000 till date.
Solution:
Star Ltd. [Status: Resident Company]
Income year: 2022-23 [Assessment Year: 2023-24]
Income from Business or profession: Tk.
Net Profit as per Profit and Loss Account 213,000
Less: Non-business income for consideration at respective head:
[1] Dividend 120,000
[2] Interest 30,000
[3] Interest on tax-free securities. 15,000
[4] Intérest on foreign investment 20,000
[5] Capital gain 907 sale of asset (1,00,000-80,000) 20,000 205,000
8,000:
Add: Inadmissible Expenses
[1] Salaries (for violation of section 55(a) 450,000
[2] Donation (Condition to get CSR also not fulfilled) 150,000
[3] Income Tax (as income tax is not an expense) 30,000
[4] Fine (inadmissible expense due to violation of law) 20,000
[5] Legal expense (due to infringement of other’s trademark) 25,000
[6] Accounting Depreciation 65,000 740,000
748,000
Less: Tax Depreciation as per 3 schedule 50,000
Page | 300

Income from business 698,000
Capital Gain (1,00,000-80,000) 20,000
Income from financial assets:
[1] Cash Dividend [70 exemption] 420,000
[2] Interest. 30,000
[3] Interest on foreign investment 20,000 170,000
Total Income 888,000
‘Tax calculation:

Taxon total income’ excluding cash dividend & capital gain (22.5% of Tk.
7,48,000) (assuming conditions to avail 20% tax rate not fulfilled)

Tax on dividend (20% of Taka 1,20,000): 24,000
Tax.on capital gain (15% of Tk.20,000) 3,000:
Total tax 195,300
Minimum tax on gross receipts @0.60%
On-sales Tk.35,00,000 @0.60% 21,000
On receipts from sale of assets. Tk.1,00,000@0.60%=600x15/25 360
On dividend receipts Tk.1,20,000 @0.60%= 720x20/25 576
On interest receipts Tk. 50,000 @0.60% 300
Total 22,236
Tax liability, higher.one. 195,300:
Less: Advance tax paid 30,000
Less: TDS on cash dividend (1,20,000x20%): 24,000
Less: TDS on bank interest (30,000x10%) 3,000
Net tax liability 138,300.
Note: (1) Due to lack of information foreign tax:credit is not possible to allow’on interest on foreign
investment.as per'section 244 or 246
Note: (2) There is no separate implication of section 56 here because tax @. 22.5%
already imposed on income including disallowances u/s 55.

Page | 301

Worked example'4
XYZ Pharmaceuticals Limited, a pharmaceutical manufacturing company; commenced its operations
in 2016. The audited profit &.loss:statement of the company for the year.ended 30 June,2022 is as follows:

Other information:

(i) Depreciation booked in the:accounts duting the year TK. 30 million. As per tax law depreciation
for the year would be: Tk. 50 million.

(ii) Royalty charged to expensé during the year'was.Tk. 9.60. million. (8% of net sales).

(iii) Expense incurred for free sample distribution ‘was Tk. 5 million.

(iv) Out of'the‘total employees of the company 10 employees’ salaries include perquisites on an
average Tk. 10,50,000 each, 10 employees’ salaries include perquisites on an average Tk.
800,000 each. No other employee's salaries have. perquisites: more than’ Tk. 10;00,000.

(v) Provision for gratuity charged during the year Tk.. 1,000,000, whereas gratuity paid during the
year Tk. 900,000.

(vi). The company’ contributed ‘to the employeés’ provident fund during the year Tk. 1,500,000.
The provident fund is duly recognized by concerned Commissioner of Taxes.

(vii) Theré Was entertainment.expense.of Tk. 250,000 charged during thé year.

(viii) Financial expense includes Tk. 2 million for the interest paid on the foreign loan received
from its overseas parent company. The. rate of interest is: LIBOR+4:50. The ‘transfer pricing
officers of NBR have assessed that the ‘arm’s length rate of interest of the similar loan should
LIBOR+3.0 [Assume the: LIBOR rate was 0.50]

Required:

(i) Compute total income of the company.

(ii) Compute net tax liability of the company. for the year.

Page | 302

Solution:

Computation of total income of XYZ Pharmaceuticals Ltd. for the assessment year 2023-24:
Taka | Taka
[Net profit (loss) before taxasperaccounts |] 73788

Add:
Accounting depreciation 30,000,000
Royalty expenses 9,600,000
Free samples for consideration as per section 55(jha) 5,000,000
Excess perquisites (10,50,000-10,00,000) X 10 500,000
Provision for gratuity made. during the year 4,000,000:
Entertainment expenses 250,000
Interest on foreign loan: as per accounts 2,000,000:
48,350,000
Less:
Tax depreciation 50,000,000
Samples expenses (Note-1). 1,600,000
Gratuity paid during the’year 900,000
Interest on foreign loan allowed (2000/5%.X 3.5%) 1,400,000:
Entertainment expenses (Note. 2) Nil
Royalty expenses (Note-3) Nil
(53,900 ;000)
| Totalincome 108, 238,000))

Notes:

1. Free sample expenses computed @ 2% on 5:crore, 1% on next’ 5.crores and.0.5%.on balance
Tk. 2. crore of turnover [Section 55(jha)]

2. As there is no'taxable profit, no: entertainment will be allowed as per Section 55(ja)

3. Royalty is:allowed up'to.8% of disclosed net profit..As disclosed net profit is negative so royalty
also not allowéd (Sec:55uma).

4. Though the company suffered loss but tax @ 30% (assuming conditions to avail 27.5% tax.
fate not fulfilled) to be: paid on disallowances u/s 55 as per section 56. Total disallowances u/s.
55 are:

[1] Royalty Tk. 96,00,000

[2] Free samples Tk. 34,00,000

[3] Excess perquisites Tk. 500,000

[4] Entertainment Tk. 2,50,000

Total Tk. 1,37,50,000. Tax@ 30% comes.at.Tk.41,25,000 u/s 56

Computation of tax liability of the company.

‘Tax on calculated loss Nil

But tax @ 30% as per sec. 56 on disallowances u/s ‘55 Tk. 41,25,000

Tax on gross receipts as per section 163(5) (12 crore X 0.60%) Tk. _7,20,000

Thefefore, the nét'tax liability of the company for the AY 2023-24 willbe Ik, 48,45,000
Page |:303

Worked example’5.
The Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive income of ABC Ltd. is given below
for the income year 2022-23:
ABC Limited.
Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive. income for the year ended on:JUne 30,

Electricity; Gas and Water 72,000) Interest on. Tax-Free 20,000
চারার eames |
Donation and Subscription 160,000 | Interest on Foreign 30,000
চল | Mineman |
ABC Ltd. is a Public Limited Company: Salaries are paid in cash without any cheque or bank
transfer. Tk. 600,000 of salaries from Tk.8,50,000 falls: under the category of gross salary more
than Tk.10,000; tax depreciation amounts to Tk.60,000; legal expenses are paid due to the
infringement of trademarks and the. company has: sold an .asset for’ Tk.120,000 that the
company has purchased 3 years back at a cost of Tk.100,000 with a written down value of
Tk.70,000 to date. Determine the taxable income and tax liability thereof of ABC Ltd.
Answer to the question no 5:
Page | 304

ABC Limited
Status: Resident Company
Computation of total income
Income Year: 2022-23: Assessment Year: 2023-24
Particulars Tk. Tk.
Net Profit as per Profit and Loss Account 294,000.
Less: Items to consider seperately:
[1] Dividend income 160,000
[2] Interest income 40,000
[3] Gain on sale of fixed asset 60,000
[4] Interest on tax-free securities 20,000
[5] Interest on foreign investment 30,000 310,000 _
(16,000) _
Add: Inadmissible Expenses
[1] Salary and allowances u/s 55078) being paid in cash 600,000
[2] Donation (assuming not paid to Govt. approved institution) 160,000
[3] Fine: paid to Customs (as’fine is not.allowable 9১00. u/s 54) 28,000
[4] Legal Expenses (as it was incurred for law violation), 30,000
[5] Advance Income: Tax (because tax is not expenditure) ‘40,000
[6] Depreciation (for consideration as per 3'¢ schedile) 75,000 933,000
917,000
Add: Revenue gain from sale of fixed asset (100,000-70,000) 30,000 30,000.
Less: Tax Depreciation (as per 3 schedule) 60,000, __
Taxable income from Business. 887,000
Capital Gain on sale of Asset (120,000-100,000) 20,000
Income from:financial assets :
[1] Cash Dividend 160,000
[2] Interest 40,000.
[3] Interest on ‘foreign investmerit 30,000. 230,000
Total Income 1,137,000
Computation of Tax Liability:
Taxon total income excluding dividend and capital gain
[1] (22.5% of Tk. 9,657,000 assuming publicly traded company) 215,325
[2] Tax on dividend (20% of Taka. 160,000) 32,000
[3] Tax on Capital Gain (15% of taka 20,000) 3,000
Gross tax liability 250,325
Less:
[1] AIT 40,000
[2] TDS on bank interest @10% 4,000
[3] TDS on cash dividend @20% 32,000 76,000
174,325.
788০ | 305

Note: There is: no separate implication of section 56 here because 'tax @.:22.5% already imposed on.
business income including disallowances u/s 55.
Worked example'6
Star Consumer Limited is a private limited company engaged in manufacturing and.
marketing of cosmetic products. The income statement of the company for the
income year 2022-23 is as follows:
Opening stock 80,00,000 | Revenue 7,50,00,000
Purchase 4,30,00,000 | Closing stock 60,00,000
Factory overhead 30,00,000
Depreciation 20,00,000
Gross profit (c/d) 2,50,00,000
pt 8,10,00,000] 8,100,000 |
Salaries and wages 69,70,000 | Gross profit (b/d) 2,50,00,000
Office rent 11,00,000 | Interest on FDR (Gross) 3,00,000
Legal expenses 3,20,000 Dividend (Net of tax) 40,000
Sample expenses 1,80,000 Bad, debt recovery 95,000
Bad debt 1,20,000 Gain from sale of 2,75,000
Head office expenses 8,00,000 old machine
General expenses 1,20,000
Research cost 2,60,000
Interest paid 1,30,000
Annual subscription to: 20,000
MCCI 36,27,500
Tax expenses 1,20,62,500
Net profit
| Total = 257,10,000] 2,57, 10,000 |
Other information:
a. Raw materials costing Taka 1,70,000 was purchased from Mr. X by making
payment through cash.
b. Depreciation allowance as per 3 Schedule of the ITA, 2023 is Taka 18,00,000..
c. Office rent was paid in cash after deducting tax at source.
d. Legal expenses included Taka 1,00,000. paid to a consultant without deducting tax
at.source.
e. Salaries included excess perquisite of Taka 2,10,000.
f. General expenses included Taka 60,000 paid for Director's family. expenses.
g. A five years. old machine having cost of Taka 5,00,000 and book value of Taka
3,00,000 was sold for Taka 5,75,000.
h. A-sum of Taka 1;70,000 included in salary was related with gratuity provision.
i. A business loss of Taka 1,67,00,000 was. carried forward from previous year for
setting off against current year profit, if any..
Page | 306

Based on these information, compute total income and tax liability of the company as
per Income Tax Act, 2023, for the income year 2022-23.
Answer to the question 110 6:
Star Consumer Limited
Computation of total income. and tax liability
Income year: 2022-23 [Assessment year: 2023-24]
A] Computation of total income:
1..Income-from Business or Profession (under’Sec-44)
N.P. before tax as per-accounts, (Taka 1,20,62,500 + 36,27;500) 15,690,000
Less: Non-business income to be considered in appropriate heads:
[1] Interest on FDR. 300,000
[2] Dividend income (net) 40,000
[3] Capital Gain from sale of old machine 75,000 (415,000)
15,275,000
Add: Expenses to be considered separately:
[1] Provision for gratuity (Note-3) 170,000
[2] Accounting Depreciation 2,000,000
[3] Sample expenses 180,000
[4] Staff incentive 800,000 3,150,000
Add: Inadmissible expenses:
[1] Rent paid in cash- section 55(ta). 1,100,000
[2] Consultaricy fee - section 55038) 100,000
[3] Excess Perquisites-séction 30(gh) 210,000
[4] Director’s family expeériseés [being personal] as per'séc: 54 60,000 1,470,000 |
19,895,000 |
Less: Admissible expenses as per law:
[1] Tax depreciation 1,800,000
[2] Sample expenses (Note-1) 180,000
Bl Head office. expenses (10% of disclosed ‘net. profit or‘actual expense 800,000 (2:780,000)
whichever is lower) }
17,115,000
Less: Loss carried forward from previous year [as:per sec. 70] (16,700,000)
Taxable Income from business 415,000
2. Capital gain
Capital gain on sale of old machine (Note-2) 75,000
3. Income-from other sources under section-62
[1] Interest on FDR 300,000:
[2] Cash Dividend income [Gross] ‘50,000
| 840,000
Page |:307

B] Calculation of Tax liability
[1] On business income Taka 4,15,000. X 30% (assuming conditions to 424.000
avail 27.5% tax rate not fulfilled) =1 24,500. or an
Alternative minimum tax on gross receipts @ 0.60% 453,570
[7,50,00,000+95,000+5,00,000] = 7;55,95,000 x 0.60%
Higher one- 453,570
Add: Tax u/s, 56:on disallowances u/s 55 = 14,10,000. X 30 423,000 876,570
[2] On capital gain @ 15% (Taka 75,000 X 15%) [note-4] 11,250
[3] On iriterest income @ 30% (Tk. 3,00,000 x 30%) [note-5] 90,000
[4] On dividerid income @ 20% (Taka 50,000 X 20%) [note-6] 10,000 _
Total tax liability 987,820
Notes:
1) Sample Expenses:
On Turnover up to Taka 5,00,00,000 @ 1% 5,00,000
On Turnover Taka 2,50,00,000 @ 0.5% 4,25,000
Maximum limit of sample cost 6,25,000
[As claim is less than Tk. 6,25,000,.so actual claim is allowed]
2) Business profit and capital gain from sale ০6010 machine:
Selling price 5, 75,000:
Less: Written down value __(3,00,000)
Total gain or profit’ 275,000
Capital gain- difference between selling price and. original cost’ 75,000
Business profit- difference bétweén original cost:and book: valite 2,00,000
3) Provision for gratuity is not allowed as expenses in the year when provision is made;
rather it is allowed when actual payment is made..
4) Alternative minimum tax on capital gain comes at.Tk. 75,000 x 0.60%=450 x
15/30=225 whereas regular tax on capital gain comes at.Tk.11,250. So regular tax will
be applicable.as it is higher. '
5) Alternative minimum tax on interest income comes at Tk: 3,00,000 x 0.60%=1,800/
‘whereas regular tax ‘on bank interest comes at Tk.1,05,000. So regular‘tax will be
applicable as it is higher. রত
6) Alternative minimum tax on cash dividend comes at Tk. 50,000 x 0.60%=300 x.
20/30=200 whereas regular tax on capital gain comes at Tk.10,000. So regular tax will
be applicable as it is. higher:.
Worked example 7
From the following profit & loss account of Oman Bank Ltd., a non-resident bank, for the ‘year
ended on 31/12/2022, compute. total income.and tax liability
Page | 308

Salaries and allowances - 22,00;000/- | Interest.and 1,20,00,000/
চনয 17 মাচ
Interest on deposit- 40,00,000/- | Capital Gain from sale} 10,00,000/-

of shares of listed
ENE Eee
Head office exp. (as per allocation by head 3,00,000/-
ee
Travelling expense: -
(a) 50,000/-
ithin the country —
(b) 4,50,000/-
utside the country. (including head office
তে |
Net profit-
Additional information:
(1) Royalty paid TK. 3,00,000/- parent company.
(2) Tax.at.source was: not deducted from carworkshop bill of TK. 2,00,000/-
(3) Provision for bad debt is within 1% of classified loan.
(4) Tax depreciation as per tax law is TK. 10,00,000/-
(5) Advertisement bill paid to advertisement agency for periodic advertisement to private TV
channel. No VAT was deducted therefrom though tax.at:source was deducted properly.
Oman Bank
Computation of total income
For the year ended on 31% Dec.2021
(Assessment year: 2023-24)
Page | 309

Tk.. Tk.
A. Income from business:
Net profit;as: per Profit;and Loss a/c: - 400,000
Less: Capital gain from sale of shares of listed companies (1,000,000)
Business loss: (600,000)
Less: - Disallowances of expenditure for separate consideration:
(1) Depreciation (for consideration as per 3‘ Schedule) 1,500,000
(2) Entertainment (for‘consideration as per Section 55ja) 800,000
(3) Head office exp. (allowable up to 10% of disclosed net profit) 260,000
(4) Technical fee (allowable up to 10% of disclosed net profit) 60,000
(5) Overseas travelling (for consideration as per 30(k)) 450,000
(6) Royalty (for consideration as per'55uma)) 300,000 (3,370,000)
Income: 2,770,000
Add: - Inadmissible: expenditure:
(1) Car workshop bill payment Tk. 2,00,000
Out of total car maintenance of Tk.5,00,000, car workshop bill payment'was.
Tk. 2;00,000 Where from. no tax at source ‘was deducted. So, for non-
deduction of tax at:source, car workshop bill payment is. disallowed as per
provision of section 55 of ITA: 200,000
(2) Provision for bad debt’ Tk. 4,00,000/-
Provision for bad debt was. allowable expenditure for banking companies
up to.assessment year'2006-07. As there is no:such. provision is.allowable.
deduction u/s 49, so disallowed such provision. fully— 400,000.
(3) Scholarship to poor students Tk. 8,00,000
As it is not business-related expenditure so disallowed fully. 10% rebate
facility is:applicable.in case-of CSR ifitis:disbursed through Govt. approved.
educational institution and after fulfillment of other ‘conditions. As there is
no such information. in the question so the bank: will not be entitled to get
10% CSR rebate facility. 800,000
(4) Special reserve: - Tk. 2,00,000
Reserve is not an item of P & L. Moreover, there is no information about
the nature of such reserve:'and whether it is Govt. approved or not. So,
disallowed fully - 200,000
(5) Advertisement Tk. 7,00,000.
Allowable fully. -
1,600,000
Less:
(1) Tax depreciation (as per 3" schedule) 1,000,000
(2) Royalty . 40,000.
(3) Overseas travelling.0.50% of-disclosed turnover 60000 (1,100,000)
Income base on which entertainment, will be. allowed 3,270,000
Less: Entertainment (as per:section 55)
on 1* the 10,00,000@ 4% 40,000:
on balance 22,70,000@.2% 45,400: (85,400)
Income from banking business 3,484,600
Page | ১10

B. Capital gain:
Capital gain from sale of listed companies shares 1,000,000:
Total income 4,184,600
The calculation of tax liability
On Tk 31,84,600 Tax @,40% 1,273,840
On Tk.10,00,000 tax @ 10% 100,000
1,373,840
Note: There is no separate implication of section 56 here because tax @ 40% already
imposed on disallowances u/s 55.
Worked example 8:
Prime Leasing is a public limited company listed with Dhaka Stock Exchange. It has recently
submitted its income:tax return for the accounting year ending on 31 December'2023 showing net
profit before tax of Tk. 11,37,25,000.
Further examination of the file; records and documents revealed the following:
(a) Depreciation on leased assets:charged in the accounts of Tk. 3,80,50,000.and loss on disposal.
of leased assets was Tk. 29,88;000 this arose out of the shortage of residual value of returned or
repossessed assets plus rentals received on the lease of these assets over the original cost.of the
assets.
(b) Provision for used assets and term finance has been made in the accounts at Tk. 51,35,500
and Tk.19,13,900 respectively. This has been provided in accordance with FID: Circular No. 8 issued’
by the Bangladesh Bank.
(c) Tax depreciation;for the: relevant year is 5,85,00,000.
(d) Balances:of statutory reserve and paid-up sharé.capital on 1.1.2021 Were Tk. 1,86,00,000 arid
Tk.12,00,00,000 respectively.
(e) Excess perquisites amounted to Tk. 6,95,000.
(f) Legal expenses included TK. 80,000 for professional fees for the acquisition of company's new
office at Dhanmondi.
(g) Net profit:included dividend received on investments of Tk. 19,98,000.
You are required to compute
(a) totalincome _
(b) tax liability:of the. company ‘for the relevant.assessment year.
Page| 3:11

Solution ৪
Prime Leasing
Assessment year: 2023-24
Computation of total income.and tax liability
Particulars Tk. Tk.
Net income 113,725,000
Léss: Dividend income (to be considered separately) (1,998,000)
111,727,000
Add: Inadmissible expenses
Accounting depreciation on leased assets 38,050,000
Disallowed loss on disposal of leased assets 2,988,000
Provision for used assets 5,135,500
Provision for term finance 1,913,900
Excess perquisites as per section 55ga 695,000
Legal fee for capital asset, 80,000 48,862,400.
160,589,400
Less: Tax depreciation (58,500,000)
Business income: 102,089,400
Income from financial assets [cash dividend] 1,998,000
Total income 104,087,400
Tax liability computation
Tax on dividend ificome (20% on 1,998,000) 399,600
Tax on balance: income, Tk. 102,089,400 @37.5% 38,283,525
Total 38,683,125
Notes:
1. Loss on disposal of leased assets is not allowable.
2. No provision for bad or doubtful lease or finance is allowed.
3. There is no separate implication of section 56 here because tax @ 37.5% already imposed
on disallowances u/s 55..
Assessment of insurance companies
It is a common knowledge that the true profit of life insurance business cannot correctly be:
determined under the ordinary method of accounting. Hence the Act has provided for a ‘special
method of'computing the profits of a company doing insurance ‘business. By virtue of section 47,
the assessment of insurance company is completely governed by the rules contained in the Fourth.
Schedule. 0076 Act. Therefore, the following provisions are: implicitly excluded while computing
the profits of an insurance company:
a. Sections 35 to 39 relating to the computation of income chargeable under the head "income.
from rent".
b. Sections 44 to-56 relating to the computation of profits and gains from business or profession.
c. Sections 57 to 61 relating to the computation of income chargeable under the head “capital
gains".
Page | 3.12

0. Sections 62 to 65 relating to the computing of income chargeable under the head "income from
financial assets”.
e. Section 66 to 69 relating to the computation of income under the head "income. from other
sources".
f. Section 150 relating to the giving of credit of tax deducted at source.
Thus, the profits and gains of insurance business from all sources are to be: computed artificially
under one income in accordance with the provisions in the Fourth Schedule and not under different
heads of income.
In the Schedule assessment of insurance business has been discussed under’3 different heads:
Para 2: Computation of profits and gains of life insurance business
Para 6: Computation of profits and gains of other insurance business
Para 7: Profits:‘and gains of non-resident person
Assessment of life insurance business:
The profits and gains of life insurance business are to be taken as the greater of the following:
(a) Net éxternal incomings.i.e., gross external incomings of the income year from ‘that business
less the management expenses of that year;
(6) Arinual average surplus, i.e., the annual average of the surplus artived at by adjusting the.
surplus or deficit disclosed by the actuarial valuation in respect of the last inter valuation period
ending before the commencement of the assessment year subject to the following exclusions.
(i) any surplus or‘deficit included therein which was made in.any earlier inter valuation period and
(ii) any expenditure or-allowance which is not deductible under the provisions of ‘sections 39to 54.
in computing, income chatgéable under the head ‘Income from business or profession’.
Thus, the assessable profits under the first method would vary from year to year. The annual
average actuarial surplus under the 2"? method would be constant during the inter-valuation period.
Gross external incomings:
The expression ‘gross external incomings' is defined in Para 9:of the Schedule as meaning the full
amount of incomings from interest, dividends, fines and fees:and all other incomings from whatever
source derived ‘including profits from revisions and on the sale or granting of annuities but
excluding the following:
(a) premium received on policy;
(b) interest and dividends in any annuity funds; and
(0) profits on the realization of'investments
Management expenses:
The expression "management expenses" has been defined in Para 9 of the Schedule as meaning
the full amount:.of the expenses. including commissions, incurréd exclusively for the purpose of life
insurance: business 01459 ৪ fair proportion of the expenses incurred in the general management of
the wholé business. The following 6xpenses.are excluded from the above definition:
(a) bonuses or other’sums paid to or reserved on behalf of policyholders
(8). depreciation of and losses on the realization of investments and

Page| 3.13

(0) any other expenditure or-allowance other than those allowed U/S 50.
However, the maximum limit of-such management expense is prescribed in Para 2:
(a) 7.5 percent of the premium on single premium life insurance: policies,
(b).7.5 percent of the first year's premiums on policies under which less than 12 annual} Plus
premiums are. payable,
(0) 90 percent of the first:year's premium in respect.of-all other life insurance Plus
policies,
(d) 12 percent of'all renewal premiums received during the income year. So
Annual average surplus:
The other alternative method of computing profits of‘a life. insurance business is based on annual
average surplus.determined by the actuarial valuation. Subject to certain adjustments the-actuarial
valuation forms the basis of computation of profits or:gains.
(a)Amount paid to or reserved for or expended on behalf of the policyholders:
Thé first adjustment to be made to the surplus is to allow 75% ০6076 amounts paid to or réserved
for or expended on behalf of policyholders as a deduction. there from. If the amount so kept for
policyholders which was. allowed as a deduction in the past is not actually so paid, the amount:so
allowed in the past'will be added back’to the profits for the period in which the amount:ceases to
be So reserved.
(b)Appreciation or depreciation of investments:
Any amount either written off or reserved by the insurance company in the accounts or through,
the actuarial valuation balance to meet depreciation or loss on the realization of investments
should be:allowed if the same.is wiped out by a rise in a subsequent year either within or after the
same inter-valuation period.
(c)Interest on tax free Government:securities
Interest received in respect of any securitiés of thé Government which have been issued with the:
condition that interest thereon shall not be liable to tax.
Credit for tax deducted at source:
Where for any year an. assessment of the profits and gains of life. insurance business is made in
accordance with the annual average: of a surplus disclosed by:a valuation for an inter-valuation
period excéeding 12 months, then in. computing the tax payable. for that year, credit for tax
deducted at source shall not be given u/s 150 for the tax paid in the income year, but credit shall
be given for the annual average. of the:tax paid from interest.on securities or otherwise during-such
period.
Page | 3.14

Worked example 9
According to the last actuarial valuation at 31 December 2022, the Pioneer Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
had a surplus of Tk. 10,00;000. There was a deficit of Tk. 3,00,000 in the preceding, actuarial
valuation. 60% of the surplus was reserved for bonus to the policyholders. The company had the.
following income in the income year 2022:
1.Premium Tk. .20,00,000
2.Interest on tax free government:securities Tk. 1,00,000
3.Dividend Tk. 1,50,000.
4.Fines and fees Tk. 80,000
5.Profits on sale of shares Tk. 90,000
6.Profits on granting annuities ‘and reversion Tk. 1,50,000
Management expenses claimed and admitted by the DCT are Tk. 2,50,000. During the
undervaluation period, the company paid income tax at source of Tk. 3,00,000. Some of'the:share
investments have depreciated in value during the year by Tk. 60,000. Determine the income of life
insurance. business of the company for the income year 2022.
Solution 9
Pioneer Life Insurance Co. Ltd.
Assessment year: 2023-24
Actuarial surplus: Amount (Tk.)
Surplus as per 2022 valuation. 10,00,000
Add: Deficit.on earlier valuation 3,00,000
13,00,000
Add: Income tax deducted at source 3,00,000
. . . 16,00,000
Less: Reserve for borius (75% x 10,00,000 x 60%) 4,50,000
Adjusted surplus, 11,50,000.
Annual average. surplus 2,30,000
Add: Profit on sale of shares 90,000
320,000
Less: Depreciation of share investment 60,000
Adjusted annual average 2,60,000.
Gross external earnings
Interest on securities 1,00,000
Dividend 1,50,000:
Fines and fees 80,000:
Profit 6n annuities and réversions 1,50,000
4;80,000
Less: Management expenses 2,590,000
Net external earnings 2,30,000
Page:|3:15

For income tax purpose for the assessment year 2023-24, adjusted annual average of Tk. 2;60,000

being higher of the two would be'the assessed amount.

Assessment of General Insurance Company

(1) Forth Schedule. governs the computation of income of insurance business both life and
general.

(2) Admissibility of business expenditure under section 50 and _ inadmissibility/ceiling of
admissibility 47065600017 55:apply in general irisurance business too..

(3) Para 6(2) of Forth Schedule permits a general insurance company to transfer 10% of the net
premium income.of that year to a fund created to meet exceptional losses and such transfer is
an admissible. deduction.

(4) Para 6(3) of Forth Schedule sets the mechanism for the upper limit of the fund which is, the

- amount:of the fund should be: equal (0 the. premium income of the year-or average premium of
‘the immediate: 3 years preceding whichever is higher.

Worked example 10

Following is the: profit and loss account of Sonar Bangla Insurance Co. Ltd. for the year ended on.

31 December 2022: .

Directors’ fee 48,000 Interest, dividend, rent 1,97,26,029.
Audit fees 135,000
Profit transferred from] 1,72;73,952:
other revenue accounts
Registration, renewal etc. 2,05,331
Advertisement 32,40,251
Other Income. 9 832
Depreciation 7,92,127
Interest on overdraft 1,81,198
Balance transferred to
Appropriation Account. 3,23,57,906
3,70,09,813 3;70;09,813

Further serutiny of the relevant papers, files and documents revealed the:following:,

(1) Gross premium received during the year was Tk.12,56,07,426 and in three years immediately

preceding were Tk. 13,12,12,308, Tk. 13,68,87,085 and Tk. 13,55,80,109 respectively.

(2) Net. premium income: of the year was Tk. 64441296 and the. balance brought forward on

reserve for exceptional loss was Tk.10,19,45,720.

(3). Accounting depreciation Tk. 7,92,127 whereas as per tax law this has been computed at Tk.

9,19,029.

(4) Gratuity charged in the.accounts Tk. 7,79,845 but actually paid Tk: 6,25,860.

(5) Analysis of the dividend, rent etc. revealed that an amount of Tk. 6488284 being interests on

various bank deposits has béen. included therein.

Page | 3:16

Calculate ‘taxable profit and tax liability. of the company for the relevant assessment ‘year:
Solution 10
Sonar Bangla Insurance Co. Ltd.
Assessment year: 2023-24
Amount (Tk.) | Amount (Tk.)
Net profit as per accounts 3,23,57,906
Less: Income for:separate treatment
Dividend 1,32;37,745
Interest 64,88,284 1,97,26,029
1,26,31,877
Add: Inadmissible deductions
Accounting depréciation 7,92,127
Gratuity provision 779,845 15,72,022
1,42,03,899
Less: Admissible expenses
‘Tax depreciation 9,19,029
Gratuity actually paid 6,25,860
Reserve for exception 64,44,130
losses 79,89,019
Business income 62,14,880
Dividend income 1,32,37,745
Income from financial assets 64,88,284
‘Total income ‘2,59.40,909
Computation of tax liability’
Tax on dividend income 1,32,37,745 @.20% 26,47 ;549
Taxon business income 62,14,880 @ 37.5% 23,30,580
Tax on financial assets 64,88,284 @37:5% 24.33.107
Total tax liability 74,11,236
Notes:
(1). Dividend is taxable @20%
(2) Gratuity actually paid is allowed.
(3) Reserve for exceptional losses: -
Current year Preceding three years
2020 2019 2018
Gross premium| 12,56,07,426 13,55,80,109 13,68,87,085 | 13,12,12,308
income: Average of 3 Tk.13,45,59,834
years
Since average. of three years premium income is higher than the premium of Tk:12,56,07,426
(current year's gross premium), the reserve for-exceptional losses can be built up to that amount.
Opening balance in exceptional loss reserve TK, 10,19,45,720
Page: |317

Transfer admissible - 10% of net premium income of Tk. 6,44,41,296 64,44.130
Balance carried forward A0,83,89,850
Non-resident carrying insurance business in Bangladesh: (Para 7) the profits and gains of the
branches in Bangladesh of a nonresident insurance company may be.deemed to be 'the.proportion
of the total world income of the company corresponding to the proportion which its premium income
derived:from Bangladesh bears to its total premium income. The:total world income: of nonresident
life. insurance companies whose profits are periodically ascertained by actuarial valuation shall 06.
computed in the manner laid down in these paragraphs for the computation of profits.and gains of
the life insurance business carried‘on in Bangladesh..
For example, ALICO Bangladesh Ltd. is incorporated in USA and it carries, on insurance. business:
‘in Bangladesh for:séveral years through. branches. For the year endéd 31 March .2019 its audited
world income has been taka 950 million against a total premium income for the same year of taka.
3,250 million. In Batigladesh it earned premium income of taka 60 million. Therefore, profits earned
in Bangladesh is computed.as taka. 17.54 million (950/3250*60).
Worked example 11
ABC Ltd., a publicly traded company incorporated and operating in Bangladesh, is 70%
Bangladeshi owned and is a manufacturer of refrigerators, freezers and air-conditioners under the
brand name ABC which is registered asa’ trade mark in Bangladesh. The company is. the owner
of the brand. The profit and loss account for the year ended 31 December 2022 is as follows:
Particulars Notes Tk.
Turnover 161,596,000
Add: Interest income (1) 308,000
161,904,000
Less: Cost of sales (2) 115,416,000
46,488,000
Less:
Salaries, wages, and bonuses (3) 7,040,000
Employees Provident fund (4) 1,536,000
Donation (5) 20,000
Advertising (6) 7,398,000
Rental of premises (7) 1,858,000
Travelling (8) 1,500,000
Foreign exchange loss (9) 280,000
Maintenance of plant and machinery (10) 232,000
Bad and doubtful debts (11) 2,038,000
Freight.and insurance 3,044,000
Depreciation 1,880,000
Motor vehicles expenses 582,000
27,408,000
Net profit before tax 19,080,000
Notes:
Page | 3.18

(1) Interest income is from a fixed deposit placed with a bank in Bangladesh. The interest was
réceived during the year and has 0667 grossed-up in the..accounts. Interest. income includes
Tk.28,000 (gross) earned but:received by ABC Ltd. after 31 December 2022.
(2) Cost of sales is arrived at:after crediting Tk.80,000 in respect of the cost of goods manufactured
by the company, which were withdrawn from stock for use of fixed assets by the company. The
normal selling price was Tk.120;000.
(3) Salaries, wages, and bonuses include basic salary of Tk.64,000 paid to CFO in cash ‘for the
month of January 2022, pension of Tk.20,000 and contribution to the Gratuity Fund(unapproved).
(4). The Employees Provident Fund contributions by the employer‘and employee each are @10%
for staff and 12% for executives.
(5) Donation 19 in respect of contributions made to a fund-raising campaign organized by a
distributor of the ABC’ brand of goods.
(6) Advertising included is,a:sum of Tk.54,000 incurred on advertising the ABC. brand of goods
on the internet via,a host website located in Dhaka. The goods are of export quality standard. No
income tax and VAT were deducted from the payment, as the company was not sure about the
réquitements of such deduction.
(7) Rental of premises included in the rental is assum, Tk.50,000 paid in respect of the early
termination of the lease of a building which the company vacated in September 2022. The
lease was to have run for another'5 years. The building was no longer suitable ৪ও'৪ showroom
forthe company’s goods due to the construction ofa toll plaza.
(8) Travelling includes:
(i) Vacation airfare and hotel accommodation costing Tk.36,000 for important overseas:
customers.. . ; ;
(ii) Reimbursement;to the directors of the company of salaries of Tk:200,000 and Employees
Provident Fund contributions of Tk.25,000 in respect of drivers employed by the directors.
(9) The foreign exchange. loss is in respect of the purchase of component parts for
manufacture. The: realized loss amounts to Tk.14,000 only..
(10) Maintenance of plant.& machinery includes installation cost amounting to Tk.34,000.
(11) Bad:and doubtful debts comprise:
Bad debts recovered (238,000) Specific provision brought forward (1,902,000) General
provision brought forward (2,410,000) Bad debts written off 240,000 Specific provisions
carried forward 2,750,000 General provisions carried forward 3,598,000 2,038,000 The
specific provision carried forward includes. a sum of Tk.26,000; being the balance of a personal
loan granted to a director who has now resigned from the Board.
(12) Depreciation allowances have been computed at Tk.1,644,000 for the assessment
year 2023-24, but without considering the following acquisitions:
Machine:

Page| 3.19

On 14 August 2022. the company purchased a machine at'a cost of Tk.366,000. The sum of
Tk.34,000 mentioned in note (10) was incurred on. preparing the site for installation of this
machine. The. machine commenced to be used for the business two weeks after acquisition.
Motor:car: A new car costing Tk.44,00,000 was purchased on 9 July 2022 for the general
manager.
(13) Dividend has been paid @ 30% (20% cash, 10% bonus) forthe year ended 31
December 2022
(14) Capital loss of Tk.1,000,000 carried forward from the. assessment years as follows:

2015-16 Tk. 200,000

2016-17 Tk. 300,000

2017-18 Tk. 400,000

2018-19 Tk.100,000

Total Tk:10,00,000
The. loss carried forward from the assessment years. includes::

(i) 2015-16: Tk:100,000 depreciation allowance.
(ii) 2018-19: Tk.50;000 loss under the head “Capital gains”.
All other losses carried forward relate to business. income.
Requirements:
a) Compute total income for the assessment year 2023-24.
b); | Compute total tax liability for the year.
Solution 11
ABC Ltd.
Accounting Year ended on 31 December 2022
[Assessment Year: 2023-24]

[Particulars Taka] Taka]
Net Profit before tax 1,90,80,000
Less: Interest Income for consideration under -3,08,000
appropriate head: -

Net Profit from business as per audited statement of 1,87,72,000

accounts

Add: Items of expenditure. for separate

consideration:

Accounting Depreciation 18,80;000

Foreign exchange loss 280,000 21,60,000
| Add: Inadmissible expenses:

Page | 320

Salary due to paid in cash u/s 55108 64,000
Donation to unapproved sector 20,000
Advertising without TDS u/s 55ka 54,000
Contributions to unrecognized provident fund [note-4] 15,36,000
Reimbursement of director's driver salary and P.F. 2,25,000
Installation cost of machinery. (being capital nature) 34,000
Provision for bad and doubtful debts [note-5] 22,76,000 42,09,000
2,51,41,000
Bad debts recovered 2,38,000
Admissible income/(expenses): 2,53,79,000
Written off provision for doubtful debts -2;40,000
Realized foreign exchange loss -14,000 =2,54,000
Income from business. or profession before considering
depreciation, unabsorbed business loss and unabsorbed 2,51 ,25,000.
tax depreciation loss
Tax depreciation [note-6] -20,84,000
Profit after depreciation 2,30,41,000
Set-off unabsorbed depreciation loss [note-7] -1,00,000
Set-off unabsorbed business loss [note-8] -4,50,000
Income from business or profession 2,24,91,000
Income from financial assets
Interest income 3,08,000
Total income 2,27,99,000:
Income tax payable on total income @20% 45,59,800
Income tax deducted at source [note-10] -28,000
Net tax payable 45;31,800
Worked example 12.
AR. Ltd. (petitioner# 1) and BA Ltd.. (petitioner# 2), being PLC: (non-publicly traded), carrying on,
business as mobile phone operators, obtained court order fora horizontal amalgamation" Exhibit
1 for further details on ownership structure and other briefs on scheme. As: per approved
amalgamation scheme, petitioner 2(transferor, BA Ltd.) shall be amalgamated into petitioner#
1(transferee,.AR Ltd.) to enhance scale of operations and optimize resource utilization. Cut-off for
both is Dec 31. Extracts:
AR Ltd. BA Ltd.
Page | 321

Income Statement Income Statement
For the year:ended 31-12-2022 for the year ended 31-12-2022
) Tk. In ‘000 . Tk. In ‘000.
Revenue 51,000,000 Revenue 13,000,000
Cost of revenue (29,000,000) Depreciation (network) (5,000,000)
Gross profit 22,000,000 Other Network Ops'cost (10,000,000).
Admin, expense (4,000,000) Gross:Profit/ (Loss) ” (2;000,000) ,
S&D expense (6,000,000) Other Income, net 100,000
Operating expense (4,000,000) G&A expense (2,000,000)
Profit from Ops 8,000,000 S&D expense (2,000,000)
Net finance expense (100,000) Operating profit/ (loss) (5,900,000)
Noh-ops income 400,000 Finance income 50,000:
Finance expense (2,000,000)
Foreign exch. gain/ (loss) (300,000)
Profit: before tax 8,300,000 Profit before tax (8,150,000)
Statement of Financial position (31-12-2022) reflect. BA Ltd. (in 000) R/E (taka’60,000,000), equity
(taka 14,000,000).
Further Findings from the records of the income year of AR LTD.:
i) Operating expense includes 110. 500;000 paid to:a lawyer for services involved ir acquisition of
Khulna. office.
ii) Representative of 2.shareholding companies (AR. (Pvt.) Ltd. and DNT) visited Dhaka when the
talk of merger was brewed. Company paid Tk. 2,500,000'to Radisson on:a/c of visITArs, charged
to admin expense.
iii) Non-ops income includes amount after TDS ‘Tk. 100,000 paid to a valuer for valuation of assets
disposed.
iv) Admin expense includes taka 150,000 interest levied for late filing oftax return and non-payment
of advance tax.
v) Netfinance:expense includes'taka 500,000 paid as interest-on a/c.of'a deferred payment scheme
for acquiring imported cellular equipment.which are already received and installed.
vi) Cost of revenue includes accrual taka 5,000,000 BTRC annual license fee, without TDS,
payment due by Jan/2021.
vii)Operating expense includes taka 150,000 paid to:a stationery goods: supplier, without TDS.
viii) Operating expense: includes Tk. 500,000 paid to a vendor without deducting/paying VAT
thereon.
ix) Company missed to write-off a loss of taka 500,000/5, 017 capital assets sold during the income
year. An.amount of depreciation taka 300,000/= was charged in income. year on the same.capital
asset sold..
Further findings from the records of the income year of BA Ltd.:
i), Finance expense includes Tk. 700,000/= interest on O/D'taken ‘to pay income tax
ii) Foreign exchange loss represents loss due ‘to rate slump between time gap of approved foreign
loan and receipt.
iii) Company changed ‘stock valuation method for mobile. set stock. AudITAr did not ৪8766 and
qualified the report quantifying the resulting missed revenue: Tk. 2,500,000.
Page | 322

iv) Tk. 1,000,000 incurred for renovation of rented site: offices in the country and charged to S&D
expense.

v)Included in G&A ‘expense, fees Tk. 500,000 paid to audITAr for valuation of fixed assets in
connection with the: preparation leading to primary meeting of the merger.

vi) G&A. expense includes. taka 2,500,000 on a/c of transfer of overdue accumulated contribution
to RPF (both employer and employee). Company could not.transfer contribution timely for cash
strain overriding the PF Rules.

vii)Other network operating expense includes taka 500,000 forfeited advance paid for acquiring a
new Office floor.

viii) Tk. 200,000 accrued as car rent from. car rental company reported under S&D expense,
without TDS.

ix) During the income ‘Vear, company disposed of a:capital:asset for taka 2,500,000. Carrying value.

and the tax WDV (@ 10%) of the asset. at disposal were taka 1,000,000 and taka 800,000
respectively. A new asset Was purchased for taka 5,000,000 to replace ‘the old asset in the
same year. Depreciation on new asset was provided wrongly at 20%.

x)G&A expense includes taka 1,000,000 for directors traveling to Singapore on a new business
negotiation, lump, sum payment. of taka 1,000,000 as inducement to hunt a prospective
employée from a competITAr:

xi) Feés Tk. 500,000 paid to a lawyer to increase:authorized capital before merger scheme.

Requirements:

a) Calculate total income and tax payable of AR Ltd. for the income year ended 31.12.2022.
Explanations/assumptions/relevant ‘sections/case ref, if any, in support of your adjustments
should be given.

b) Calculate total income of BA Ltd. for income year ended 31.12.2022.
Explanations/assumptions/relevant. sections/case ref, if any, in support. of your adjustments
should be given.

০) Consider relevant information above and in Exhibit:2 relating to ‘Slump Sale’ of ‘S* unit of BA
Ltd. to MP Ltd. before the ‘Effective Date’ of amalgamation. Compute capital gain and tax,
liability on ‘S’ unit sales.

d) Consider Exhibit 1. Write your views ‘in the light of the I.T. Act:

(i) Whether difference shall attract tax if value of shares received from AR Ltd. by shareholders of
BA Ltd. is more ‘than the value of net assets of BA Ltd. amalgamated with AR Ltd.

(ii) Whether AR Ltd, is entitled to carry forward losses/unabsorbed depreciation of BA.Ltd. for set-.
off against.taxable profit of the transferee after amalgamation.

EXHIBIT 1 (In cofinection with Question No. 1)

Court approved a scheme of:amalgamation Under Companies Act 1994 between AR.Ltd.
(Petitioner 1) and BA Ltd. (Petitioner 2). Currently, AR Ltd. (Petitioner 1) is owned by a
Singapore-based company, AR (Pvt.) Ltd. (91%) and a Korean company, DNT (9%)..BA.
Ltd.

(Petitioner 2) is‘owned by AB Singapore (Pvt.) Ltd. (98%) and Mr. X of UK (2%). Petitioner:

2(transferor). shall be merged into Petitioner 1 (transferee). Pre-merger and post-merger
ownership structure are as follows:
Page: | 323

AR. 10. _ AR Ltd:
AR (Pvt.) Ltd, Singapore. | DNT (Pvt.) Ltd, AB Singapote Pvt Mr..X, UK (2%)
(91%) Korea (9%) 100. (98%)
AR Ltd. (Transfree) মস; BA Lid. (Transferor)
(Merged)
Post-amalgamation
AR (Pvt) Ltd, Singapore | DNT (Pvt, Ltd, AB Singapore Pvt.
(71%) Korea (4%) Ltd. (25%)
Relevant two extracts from approved Amalgamation Scheme:
i) All Asséts .and liabilities of amalgamating company (Transferor) shall bé vested on amalgamated
company (01780968166). As part of capital reorganization,. 1,300,000,000 Ordinary BDT 10 shares in
transferee company shall be issued to shareholders of transferor; resulting 25% holding for ‘transferor
company’s shareholders 17 transferee company’s reorganized capital. Assume, shareholders of transferor
company with >9/10th in'value of shares:in transferor company become.shareholders of the amalgamated
company. Difference:of net assets of transferor company and value of agreed issue in transferee company
to shareholders. ofthe transferor company’'shall be transferred to Capital Reserve/Goodwill.
ii) Transféree: company shall be entitled to claim benefit of brought forward losses or/and unabsorbed
depreciation, as admissible under the provisions of Income Tax, Act to the extent applicable, of the
transferor company arid to 560 off against ‘the. taxable profit of the transferee company after official
amalgamation.
Page | 324

EXHIBIT 2
SIM Kitting service unit ‘S’ of BA Ltd.:
BA Ltd. (transferor) has a:small warehouse:SIM kitting unit ‘S* within its operation. Amalgamation
deal agreed not to carry on such non-core operation with the merged entity and concluded that
the deal steering committee would sell "ও unit and the resulting tax, if any, shall be settled by
transferée company. Within BA Ltd. Balance Sheet, assets and liabilities on a/c of ‘S’ unit are
(BDT): Non-current liability 1,500,000, Fixed Assets 4,000,000: which includes: 1,000 sft.
Warehouse land space bought for BDT 1,000,000 in January 2015 (revalued BDT
1,500,000 in Jan/2016), furniture & fixture net 300,000 (gross 500,000), electrical appliance net
320,000 (gross 400,000) and balance is other fixed assets WDV. Current assets: Inventory’ of
SIM.and kitting materials BDT 250,000, Bank balance (150,000). Merger’steering committee has
done a.slump: sale deal (lock, stock & barrel) with. MP Ltd. to sell Unit ‘S’ operations of BA Ltd. in
April, 2022 (before ‘Effective Date’ of Amalgamation). Consideration is BDT 5,000,000/=.
‘S’ unit capital assets are depreciated under section 55. Committee paid a lawyer net-of-tax fee
BDT 50,000 for deal advice.
Solution 12(a)
Computation of total income and tax liability AR Ltd.
Income. year ended 31.12.2022. A/Y: 2023-24
Net profit before tax 8:300,000
ADD: Inadmissible expenses:
Lawyer payment for acquisition; of Khulna office 7
[Legal exp. is-allowable exp. as per'sec.55 of ITA, 2023]
Payments:to. Radisson for Shareholders’ reps _
[Allowable as the exp. is not personal, not'capital rather related to business]
Payment to valuer‘of-assets, disposal 400
[Payments linked to capital assets sold]
Interest for late return filing and default in. advance tax payment 150
[Any exp. for violation of law’is not allowable exp.]
Interést‘on assets acquired urider-deferred scheme 500
[To be disallowed being capital exp.]
BTRC annual license fee .
[Cannot be disallowed on the ground that tax was not deducted as it would
be deducted at'the'time-of payment]
Page:|325

Stationery purchase through supply 450
[To be disallowed u/s 55ka for non-TDS]
Vendor payment without VAT deduction _
[Not to be disallowed u/s 55ka for non VDS wef the AY: 16-17]
Depreciation of sold assets 300
[Depreciation not allowed in the’year of disposal] 1200
8,301,200
Note:
There is no scope to consider loss on sale of assets Tk: 500,000 due to lack of information relating to
written down. valué and sales price: of assets already sold.
Tax calculation
Tax @,45% (non-listed mobile phone Operator Company) 3.735.540
Solution 12(b)
Computation of total income and tax liability BA Ltd
Income year ended 31.12.2022. A/Y: 2023-24
Tk. '000
বিভা profit béfore tax (8,150,000)
ADD: Inadmissible expénses:
Interest.on O/D -
[In case of cash-shortage, company can borrow money to run
business including tax payment. etc. As. it is business related xp..:so it
is allowable. Tax is not ‘allowable: exp. but interest on loan to: pay tax is
allowable exp.]
Exchange: loss [Bonafide and actual and, as such allowable: u/s 55] -
Missed revenue for stock valuation method change. -
[Assumed that stock valuation method has beén changed &
Recognized as per BAS]
Renovation of site office. [To be added as it is capital exp.] 1,000
Page | 326

Valuation fee paid to auditor in connection with merger 500
[Not.corinected with day’to day business of the company]
RPF overdue:contribution payment -
[Action of overdue payment lies under separate PF Rules, Actual
amount:whenever paid is admissible]
Forfeited advance for cancellation of:agreement 500
[Not to. be allowed as. business exp. as it was incurred for violation of
terms and conditions]
Car rerit payment accrued -
[To be-allowed as business exp. because tax to be deducted at the time
of payment not based on accrual]
Depreciation on new asset _ 100
[Dep. Claimed Tk.50,00,000x20%=10;00,000. Assumed that
purchased price of the old machine was Tk.20,00,000 (as it was not:
given in the question). So actual tax dep. to be allowed (Tk.50,00,000-.
5,00,000=45,00,000x20%=9,00,000). So excess claim Tk.10,00,000-
9,00,000=1,00,000 to be disallowed.
Inducement payment:to hunt-staff 4,000
[Illegal exp. not allowable at legal business] 3,100.
Total income (8,153,100)
Solution 2(c)
Computation of Gain and Tax Liability. on “5” (01710510110 Sale‘to MP Ltd.
Sales proceeds 5,000,000:
Less: Net'worth of ‘S’ unit 1,000,000
Floor space, value (ignoring revaluation)
WDV of other assets:
Furniture & Fixture (gross 500,000) 300,000
Electric appliance (gross 400,000) 320,000

ther fixed ts (40. -15,00;000- 100-3,20.
Other fixed assets (40,00,000-15,00;000-3,00,000-3,20,000) 1.880.000
Inventory 250,000
Bank balarice (150,000)
Value of-total.assets 3,600,000
Less: Liabilities
Liability of ‘S’ unit 1,500,000

Page: |327

Legal expense gross [50,000x100/90] 55,555 1,555,555 (2,044,445)
Capital gain 2,955,555
Tax @15% 443,333
Amalgamation of BA Ltd. with AR Ltd. under the approved scheme meets condition of
amalgamation as per'section 2(18) of IT Act. Although all:assets.and liabilities of BA Ltd. get vested
onthe AR Ltd., such amalgamation ‘does not meet definition of ‘transfer’ u/s:2(93)of'the law. There

is no sale. of assets in amalgamation, nor any price paid by AR Ltd. ‘for the assets vested. So,
there will be no capital gain tax. on:such transfer or even if the value ‘of the shares issued to the
‘shareholders of BA.Ltd. is more‘than the net value. of assets vested in the merged transferee.

AR Ltd. is entitled to:carry forward the.losses anid unabsorbed depreciation of BA Ltd in'the income
year in which the amalgamation took place ‘as per schedule 8 of the Act.

Worked example 13

XYZ Ltd., a'‘private.company, is engaged in business segments that cover

(i) mfg/trading of ceramic'tiles,

(ii). mfg/export of leather products and

(iii) International trading.

Net profit of the company for'the year'ended 30.06.2023 is taka 50,00,000 after giving effect of the following
items ‘as appropriate in the books:

i) License-fee taka-five lacs incurred for obtaining five-year franchise on 15 July 2022:

ii) Paid cash Taka 50,000 to transport operator, Taka 150;000 to-chemical supplier used in tiles mfg.

iii) Rent:taka five lacs received from letting outa part of its-office premises. Municipal:tax, in respect of the.
said part of the building, amounting to taka 10,000.

iv) Taka three lacs, being loss due to 0০৪00000617 of machinery caused by‘a fire. The. insurance. Company’
compensated taka two lacs against the fire loss claim.

v) Taka 4 lacs and 1 lac being amounts, waived by Janata Bank Ltd. out-of principal and arrear interest
respectively in oné-time-settlement. Loan was obtained for working capital neéd five years back.

vi) Dividend of-Tk. 10,000 from Dell Ltd. on 1,000:equity shares of Tk. 10 each purchased at Tk.. 100 per
share on 10th. October 2020. Dividend declared is 100%, the record date: being 01.12.2022. Shares were
sold on 01.03. 2023:at Tk. 80 per share. Loss.of Tk. 20,000 has been debited to PL a/c.

vii) Taka 50,000 paid to vendor of office supplies on which VAT was ‘not deducted.

vill) Depreciation on:tangible fixed assets taka one lac:including taka:50,000 on assets: revaluation.

ix) Tk 50,000 compensation paid to UK’supplier for cancellation of machinery import.contract from UK.

x) Provision for deferred tax taka 1,00,000.

Additional Information for the accounting year ended. on 30.06.2023:

a. Depreciation on tangible fixed assets for the income year (relating to units other than trading

Uunit):as' per'income tax rules taka 1.75 lac.

Page | 328

b. Company obtained a loan of taka.two lacs from ZXY Pvt. [0.7 11071070103 30% voting rights.
Accumulated profits of ZXY Pvt. Ltd. on the date of receipt of loan was taka 50,000.

c:, Company exports: leather products to Spain. Balance Sheet (General Reserve: Surplus on
Devaluation)-shows a credit of taka 1,75,000, amount realized and brought in the income year
from a Spanish customer as surplus on a/c:of the devaluation of BDT in 2023.

d. Company suffered heavy loss in its international trading segment. It was closed and the fixed
assets linked to this trading unit were ‘sold out. Company. claimed unabsorbed depreciation (on
a/c of trading unit assets) of taka 50,000 in the Return of income.. It’s 17010661160 to PL a/c.

e. Under a debt restructuring with Agrani bank, the company converted arrear interest. taka
3,00,000 on term loan into a new term loan'with a revised repayment schedule. Company paid
taka 50,000 towards: such funded interest during the year. Entire: taka 3,00,000 debited to PL
alc.

f.. Provision for bonus for the income. year ended 30.06.2023, disallowed in same income year;
‘paid during the year ended 30:06.2023 taka 1,00,000.

g. Assessed brought-forward losses and unabsorbed depreciation as follows:

Income Year Losses BroughtForward _ Unabsorbed Depreciation.
2019-20 2 lacs’ 1 lacs

2020-21 জা 3 lacs

2021-22 4 lacs: 1.5 lacs:

Total:taka 6 lacs §.5' lacs

h. Tannery at Hazaribag: In connection with its leather manufacturing. unit, XYZ Pvt. Ltd.
Operates a tannery at’ Hazaribag. Complying the court decree. involving a ০৪৪6 with the
Government, Company transferred its tannery unit to Savar in which it incurred an expenditure
approx: taka 25,00,000 for transfer of entire unit that includes sheds, machineries, equipment, raw
‘material and finished leather.
Company also incurred taka 5,00,000 as legal fees'as:a member of Tannery association to contest the
‘court case which it lost. These payments ‘shall hit accounts of the current income year.
Planned. Expansion on a Retailing unit:
Company's ceramic tiles are not selling that well through its dealers. Management of XYZ Pvt. Ltd.
identified the probable causes to. such slide in business.. Management considers that a watertight,
retailing entity with selling focus may make-a'turnaround, Being tax manager of XYZ Ltd,. you are tasked
to bottom up a report to management on ‘optimum capital structure’ fora new retailing unit which
maximizes the wealth and minimizes'the cost of-capital. Your look out is to strike.a balance among risk,
cost,.control and'tax consideration arriving at a most'tax-efficient model. Estimated initial fund required
is taka One crore.

You are aware that BSEC introduced BSEC (Alternative Investment) Rules 2015 to open up Private

Equity and Venture Capital (VC) Firm operations. Management spoke ‘to a VC ‘firm who agreed to

provide equity-linked debt. Available sources are 100% equity, ora tax-efficient mixture of equity, VC:

Firm borrowing (interest 8%):and bank loan (interest 10%). Expected ROI (EBIT basis) is 20%. Dividend

trend in the same sector is 15%, assume tax rate: 35%.

Page:|329

Requirements:
a. Compute total income of XYZ Ltd. for Assessment Year 2023-24. Show reasons for treatment.
b. With respect'to tannery unit transfer, give your comment with explanations on whether company can
claim deductions of'taka.25,00,000 and taka 5,00,000 iin the. current income: year tax’return.
c.. Suggest asa tax planner most tax-efficient and above-the-dividend-trend alternative for new retail entity
supported by detailed computations. Work out on. three given alternatives (A: 100% equity, B: 40%
equity+40% VC Debt+20% loan, C: 20% equity+30% VC Debt+50% loan).
Solution 13[a]
ASSESSEE: XYZ Pvt. Limited
Computation of Total Income.
Income Year Ended on 30.06.2022. [Assessment:Year: 2023-24]
A. Income from Rent:
Annual Value from premises rental (assumed 500,000
reasonable)
Less:
[1] Repairs & maintenance 30% of A.V. 450.000
[2] Municipal tax _ 10,000 _ 160,000 340,000
[Being permissible allowance without proof of
actual payment]
B. Income. from Business:
Net Profit.as per PL a/c 5,000,000
LESS: Income for-consideration at separate head:
[1] Rental income. (for consideration at HP income
head) 500,000
2] Interest waiver by bank (as it is not income’ কক
2] y bank (: ot income) 100,000.
[3] Cash dividend (for consideration at other
income head) _ 10,000. (610,000)
ADD: Inadmissible expenses
1]. 79:11091759 1 id for franchi an
[1] 5 year’s: License fees paid for franchise 500,000
(Amortization will be allowed as per 34 Schedule)
[2] Loss on destruction of machinery (section 50) 200,000
Page | 330

(Being actual loss Tk.100,000 but claimed
Tk.3,00,000)
[3] Accounting dep. (For separate consideration) 400,000
[4] Compensation paid to UK suppliers (for
violation of contract) 50,000:
[5] Provision for deferred tax (no such provision is
allowable u/s 50) 100,000
[6] Capital expenditure for shifting tannery to Savar 2,500,00

[7] Municipal tax (for consideration at HP income
head) 10,000.
[8] Capital loss on sale of shares (as not related to
business) 20,000
[9] Interest under. debt reconstruction of Agrani
Bank [note-5] 300,000 3,780,000
LESS: Items to be allowed:
[1] Amortization on License Fee (315 Sch) 100,000
: ; wt রন ; 10 ০.
[2] Tax depreciation as per 3 schedule 175,000 (275,000)
Income from Business 7,895,000
Less: Carried forward. of business loss and (1,150,000 6,745,000
depreciation loss )
C. Capital Gain :
Share transfer
Proceeds from share sale 80,000
Less: Cost of acquisition (100,000)
Loss onsale of share (not to be set-off) (20,000) |
D. Income from financial assets
[1] Cash dividend income from Dell Ltd. 10,000
Less: Exempted (10,000) _
[2] Deemed dividend u/s 2(81) for taking loan from 50.000
ZXY Ltd. ’
(Maximum up to accumulated profit of Tk. 50,000)

Page | 331

Total income 7,135,000
Note: :
[1] There is no violation of section 55(da) of ITA, 2023 for cash payment of Taka 50,000 to transport
opérator and Taka 150,000 to chemical (raw material) supplier used in tiles mfg. and accordingly’
not disallowed u/s 55(da).

[2] There is: no violation of section 55(ka) of ITA, 2023.for non-deduction of VAT at source Tk. 50,000
paid to vendor of office. supplies and accordingly not disallowed u/s 50(ka).

[3] Provision for bonus. taka 1,00,000 was: disallowed earlier year. This year though paid. but not
reflected in this year’s accounts as iit is earlier year’s expense. There is:no provision to allow it as
‘this year’s expense u/s 50 of ITA, 2023. So, no tax treatment needed this year.

[4] Company claimed unabsorbed depreciation (on a/c of trading unit assets) of taka 50,000 in the
Return of income but not debited to PL a/c. No action is required as it is: not allowable 35 per 3"
schedule.

[5] Under a debt restructuring with Agrani bank, the company: converted arrear interest taka 3,00,000
on.term loan into a’new‘term loan with a revised repayment-schedule. Company paid taka 50,000
towards such’funded interest'during the year. Entire taka 3,00,000 debited to PL.a/c.

Nothing will be allowed further as it was allowed in the relevant income year u/s: 49 on payable
basis.

[6] Legal fee against Govt. decision to move tannery to Savar is allowable expenditure assuming that
the cost of the case was borne by the tannery association as per verdict of the: honorable court. So,
it, will not. matter whether they win or lose. The expenditure is fully related to business and
accordingly‘allowable expenditure.

[7] There is no tax implication of Tk.1,75,000 brought in the income year from.a Spanish customer'as
per’6!h Schedule (Part-A) para-17 assuming ‘that it was brought‘through official channel.

Solution 13[b]

[1] Expenditure relating to:shifting/relocating tannery to Savaris:capital in nature. So, itis. not allowable

expenditure as per section 49 of ITA, 2023

[2] Legal fees against Govt. decision to move tannery'to Savar is allowable expenditure assuming that

the cost of the case was borne by the tannery association as per verdict of the honorable court. ‘So, it

will not matter whether they win or lose. The expenditure is related to business’ anid accordingly

allowable expenditure.

Solution 13[c]

PARTICULARS: Sf rnative A Taka erative B'Taka {ternative C Taka

Share Capital | | 10,000,000 4,000,000 2,000,000
|Bankloan CTL 2,000,000] 5,000,000

VC Firm Debt rf} 4,000,000 | 3,000,000

Total investment Se 10,000,000 10,000,000 10,000,000
Page | 332

200,000 | 2,000,000 | 2০০০০০০
ptesss
| Bankloaninterest | 10% P| 200,000 500,000
| VCFimDebt | 8% । 320,000 240,000
Total 520,000 740,000
| Netincome 2,000,000 | __1,480,000| __ 1,260,000
600,000 3,78,000

Return on Equity Share Capital [| 1,300,000 962,000 819,000.

Rate of Return on Equity (before dividend 13%: 24% 41%

tax)
So, Alternative C is the most tax-beneficial. Capital Structure (least tax, highest ROI).

Question No.14:

Expo Ltd. is a foreign subsidiary company of BGD Ltd. The Company sells air conditioners to Expo

Ltd. at a price of Tk. 40,000 each for sale to its dealers in Vietnam. In ‘other States, BGD Ltd. is

directly selling to their dealers at Tk. 45,000 with a warranty of two year (Tk. 3,500 for each air

conditioner). Expo-Ltd. does not offer such warranty. Quantity sold to Expo Ltd. is 10,000 units:and
to dealers of BGD Ltd. is 5,000 units. Discuss the method to. be applied to arrive at the Arm’s
Length Price (ALP) and compute the ALP. How is the assessment of BGD Ltd. going to be
affected?.

Solution 12:

Expo Ltd. and BGD Ltd. are associated enterprise as Expo Ltd is subsidiary of BGD Ltd.

Comparable product (Air Conditioner) is sold ‘to dealers (Uncontrolled transactions). Hence, in

given circumstances Comparable. Uncontrolled. Price (CUP) Method for determining arm’s length
price can be applied.

Amount (Tk.)
Sale price charged to Dealers of BGD Ltd. 45,000
Less cost of warranty included in. price: 3,500
Arm’s length price 41,500
Actual pticé: paid by Expo Ltd. to. BGD Ltd. 40,000:
Difference per unit 1,500 1,500
Addition required to be: made. in the computations of the total income of BGD 15,000,000
Ltd. (1500 x 10,000 units:

Tk. 15,000,000 is to be: shown..as adjustment for Arm’s length price. for international transaction

u/s 235.
Page: | 333

~ ১২২২২ তত ২ PSS SR ere gee Php vat chen টাল nett
SSR WN SSS EE Cine om See deg OG bee
Chapter 24
Liability in special cases and assessment of non-residents
Contents }
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list
| 24.4 | 1} Liability of representative in certain cases eee
| 21.2, .2.| Persons. to be treated as agent ee
| 21.3 | .3 | Right of representative. to recover'tax paid OO
Liability of firm or association for unrecoverable tax due from parnersormembers
Liability of directors-for unrecoverable tax of private companies ee
Liability of liquidator for tax of private companies under liquidation eee
Liability to tax in case of shipping business of non-residents |
Liability to tax in case of air transport business.of non-residents বে
(introduction ,
Learning objectives
« Define. the liability of a representative in certain cases in respect of income.
৭. Recognize the persons to. be treated as agent.
« |dentify the right of representative to recover tax paid.
দ Recognize the tax liabilities of different persons such as firms or‘association, partners, directors, liquidator
in certain cases,
« Define the. liability to tax in case of-shipping and air‘transport business of non-residents.
Practical significance
Thére is ho option to avoid thé liability for payment’ of tax. In certain ০৪৪6৪, thé réprésentative of any
person in respect of income is liable to take some responsibilities especially for assessment. There is a
list of persons who shall be treated as, agent in relation to a non-resident. Representative who paid tax on
Page | 334

account of his liability has some right to recover the sum-so paid from the person on whose behalf it is.
‘paid.
There are different types of liabilities. Firm or association has liability for unrecoverable. tax due from
partners or members. Partners have liability for discontinued business ofa firm. Directors have liability for
unrecoverable tax of private limited companies. Liquidator has liability for tax of private companies. under
liquidation. The principal or the agent has liability to tax in case of air transport business of non-residents.
Stop and think
It is. obvious ‘that liability of tax carinot be ignored under tax law. The. agents or representatives or other
persons in certain cases are liable to pay tax on behalf of other persons.
Working context
The agents or representatives or other persons as defined in this chapter in relation to liabilities are
sometime. seeking expert opinion in this respect. Accountants can give support to their clients. As tax
experts, accountants can also help in recovering tax liability from the representative or agent by providing
his expertise in this regard.
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are fundamental to your understanding of income tax.
[Examination context |
Exam requirements.
In the éxarnination, candidates may be required to:
= Identify the liability of a representative in certain cases in respect of income:
« [dentify the persons‘to. be treated as agent..
« — Illustrate the right of representative to recover tax paid.
" — Liability of firm or association for unrecoverable tax due:from partners or members..
দ Mention the liability of partners, etc., for discontinued business, of a firm, etc.
« Define:the liability of directors for unrecoverable tax of private companies.
® Identify the liability of liquidator for tax of private companies under liquidation.
® Define the liability to tax in case of shipping business of non-residents. _
« Define the liability'to tax in case of air transport business of non-residents.
Question practice
For question practice on these topics, go to the suggested answers covering this chapter..
Examiner's comments. on how students:should tackle questions
Candidates have to remember to recognize: the different: types of liabilities of representative, agents and
persons in different:cases.
21.0 LIABILITY IN SPECIAL CASES AND ASSESSMENT OF: NON-RESIDENTS
_ Section overview a : |
> There is.no option ‘to avoid ম7641180811 চি সা payment of tax' under tax law.
> Liability shall be taken by the representative or agent in certain cases.
> There is a list of persons who shall be treated as agent of a non-resident.
> Representative: may have the right to recover the tax he: paid.
Page:|335

> There are.some procedures to recover tax liabilities of different;assessee. . a
> Non-residents doing shipping business.in Bangladesh will pay tax @ 8% on gross fare, which is considered
as the final discharge of tax. liability.
> Non-residents doing air transport business in Bangladesh will pay tax @ 3% on gross receipt which is.
considered as the final discharge. of tax liability.
21.1 Liability of representative in certain cases: Section 252

(1) Every person who is a representative of another person in respect of any income:

(a) be subject to the same duties, responsibilities and liabilities as if such income were. received by, or
_ accruing to, or in favour of, him beneficially;

(b) be liable to the assessment in his own name; and

(c) be deemed to be the assessee for all purposes. of ITA, 2023.

(2) A person, who is assesséd as a représentative in respect of any income, shall not, in respect of the same
income, be:assessed under any other provision of ITA, 2023.

(3) Nothing shall prevent either the direct assessment of the person for whom, or Gn whose behalf or for
whose benefit, the representative is entitled’ to receive any income or recovery from such person of the
tax payable in respect of such income.

As per section 252 of Income Tax Act, 2023, the: following categories of persons may act as the
representative of persons as specified:
Represented by Representative of
the guardian-or manager or trustee Minor,"lunatic:or‘idiot,
the Administrator-General, the Officia) Any person'who earns
Trustee, or any receiver, manager or othe
person appointed by or under any order of.a
Court,
the‘trustee ortrustees:appointed under a trus{ Any person. who actually earns or recipient o
benefits
Agent under section 253
21.2 Persons:to be treated as:‘agent: Section 253
(1) For the purposes. of this Act, the following persons. shall, subject to the: provisions of sub-section (2) and
(3) be treated as agent in relation to a non-resident, namely —
(a):any. person in Bangladesh - :
i. who is émployed by of on behalf of, the non-resident;
ii. who has any business connection with the non-resident;
iii. | who holds, or controls the receipts-or disposal-of any money belonging to the non-resident;
iv. who is a trustee of the non-resident; or
v. from or through whom the non-resident isin receipt of any income, whether
directly or indirectly;
(b) any person whether a resident or non-resident,’who has.acquired, by means:of'transfer, a capital asset’in
Bangladesh from a person residing outside Bangladesh;, and
(0) any person who, for any other reasonable cause, is declared or treated as an agent:of the non-resident.
(2) An independent broker in. Bangladesh, who in respect of any transaction, does not deal directly with, or
on behalf of, a non-resident principal but deals with, or through, a nonresident broker, shall not be treated
as an agent.in relation to a non-resident in respect of such transaction if -: .
(a) the transaction is carried on in the ordinary course of business through the nonresident broker; and
(b) the non-resident.broker is carrying on such transaction in'‘the ordinary course of business.
Page | 336

(3) No pérson shall be treated Under this Act as an .agent in rélation toa nofiresident unless he has been
~ given by the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes an opportunity of being heard.
21.3 Right of representative to recover tax paid: Section 254

(1) A representative who, on account of his liability u/s 252, pays any sum, shall be entitled to recover the
‘sum so paid from the person on whose behalf it is. paid, or'to retain out of any moneys that may. be in his
posséssion Gr. may Come to him in his possession or may come to him in his capacity as a representative,
an amount equivalent to the sum so paid.

(2) Arepreséntative,.or any person who apprehénds that he: may be assessed as:a representative, may retain,
out of any money payable to the beneficiary on whose behalf he is liable to tax u/s 252, a sum not
exceeding his estimated liability.

(3) ln the event.of:any disagreement between the. beneficiary and the réepreseritative. or, as the case may be,

the person apprehensive of being assessed as representative, 3৪310 the amount to be retained under sub-
section (2), such representative or person may secure from the DCT a certificate stating the amount to be
so retained pending the settlement of the liability and the certificate so. obtained shall be the warrant for
retaining that:amount.
21.4 Liability of firm or AOP for unrecoverable tax due from partners or members: Section 255

(1) Where any tax payable by partner of a firm or a memberof'an AOP in respect.of his share of the income
from the firm or AOP,. as the case may be, cannot be recovered from him, the DCT shall notify the amount
ofthe tax to the fitm or AOP.

(2) Upon notification of the amount of tax under sub-section (1), the firm or AOP so notified shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in any other law’for the time being in force, be liable to pay. the said
tax and shall, forthe purposes. of recovery thereof, be deemed ‘to be:an assessee in respect.of such. tax;
and the provisions of ITA, 2023 shall apply accordingly.

21.5 Liability of partners for discontinued business: Section 256

(1) Where any business or profession carried on by a firm or an AOP has been discontinued, or where a firm
or an AOP is dissolved, assessment of the total income of the firm or AOP. may be. made as if'no such
discofitinuance or dissolution had ‘taken place; and all the provisions of ITA, 2023 shall, so far as may be,
apply accordingly.

(2) Where an. assessment is: made under sub-section (1) in respect of a firm or an AOP, every person who
was.a partner of the:firm or member of the association at the time of discontinuance of business, or as the
case may be, dissolution of the. firm or association; and the legal. representative of any such person who,
is. deceased, shall be jointly and severally liable for the amount of tax found payable. by the firm or
association upon such assessment and shall, for the purpose of recovery of such tax, including penalty
and other sum payable, be deemed to be an assessee; and the provisions of ITA, 2023 shall apply
accordingly:

21.6 Liability of directors for unrecoverable. tax of private companies: Section 257

(1) Where any. private company is‘wound up:and any tax assessed on the company, whether before, or in the
course of, or after its liquidation, in respect of any income of any income year cannot be recovered, every
person who was, at any time during the relevant income year, a: director of that company, shall,
notwithstanding anything contained in the Companies Act 1994, be jointly and séverally liable to pay’ the
said tax and shall, for the purposes of recovery thereof, be deemed to be an assessee:in respect of such
tax and the provisions of ITA, 2023 shall apply accordingly.

Page: |337

(2) Notwithstanding the provisions ০5808-5600017 (1), the liability of any person there under in respect of the
income of a private. company shall céase if he. proves to the DCT that non-recovery of tax’ from the
company. cannot. be attributed to any gross neglect, misfeasance or breach of any duty on: his part in
relation to affairs of the company.

21.7 — Liability of liquidator for tax.of private companies under liquidation: Section 258
(1) A liquidator of a private company which is wound up, Whether under the orders of a court of otherwise,
~ Shall, within 30 days after he has become such liquidator, give notice of his appointment.as such to the
DCT having jurisdiction to assess‘ the company.

(2) The DCT shall, after making such enquiries or, calling for such information as he may consider necessary,
notify to the liquidator, within 3 months of the date of receipt:of the notice under sub-section (1), the:amount
which, in. his opinion, would be sufficient to provide for any tax which is then, or is likely thereafter to
become, payable by the company.

(3) On being notified under'sub-section (2), the liquidator ‘shall ‘set aside an amount equal to the amount so
notified and-shall not, before he:sets aside such amount, part with any of the assets:of the company except
for the purpose of payment of tax payable by the company or for making payment to-secure such credITArs
as are entitled under the law to: priority of payment over debts due. to the Government. on the date of
liquidation.

(4) The liquidator shall be personally liable for payment of the tax on behalf of the company to the extent of
the amount notified, if any, under:sub-section (2), if he -

a) fails to give notice as required by sub-section (1): or
b) contravenes the provisions of sub-section (3)

(5) Where there are. more. liquidators than one, the obligations and liabilities 068 liquidator shall attach to all
the liquidators jointly'and severally.

(6) This law shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time
being in force.

(7) In this section, “liquidator” includes any person who has’ been appointed to be the receiver of the assets
of the: company under liquidation.

21.8 Liability to tax in. case of shipping business of non-resident: Section 259

(1) Where. a non-resident carries on the business of operation of ships, ৪৪: the. owner or charterer thereof
(hereinafter in this section referred to asthe principal) tax shall be levied and collected in respect of such
business in accordance with the provisions of this:section.

(2) Before departure from any port in Bangladesh of any.ship, the master of the’ship shall prepare and furnish
to the DCT a return. showing-

(a) the amount paid or payable whether in or out of Bangladesh to the principal,.or to any person.on his behalf,
on account of the ‘carriage.of passengers, livestock, mail or goods shipped at the port since the last arrival

_ of the ship; and

(b) the amount received, or deemed to be received in Bangladesh by, or on behalf of, the principal on account
of the:carriage of passengers, livestock, mail or goods.shipped ‘at any port-outside. Bangladesh.

(3) On receipt of the réturn, the DCT shall determine the aggregate of the.amounts referred to in sub-section

: (2) and, for this purpose, may call for such particulars, accounts:or documents, as he may require and the
aggregate of the said amounts so determined, shall be deemed to be income received in Bangladesh by
the principal from the. said business chargeable to tax under ITA, 2023 under the head. “Income. from
business or profession", and tax thereon shall be charged @ 8% of such income.

Page | 338

(4) Where the DCT is satisfied that it is not possible for the master of the ship or the principal to furnish the
réturn réquired under subsection (2) béfore the departure: of the ship from the port and the principal has
made satisfactory arrangements for the filing of the return and payment of the tax by any other person.on
his behalf, the DCT may, if the return is filed within 30 days of the departure of the ship, deem the filing of
the return bythe. person so authorized by’the principal as sufficient compliance with subsection (2).

(5) No port clearance shall be granted to the ship until the Commissioner of the Customs or‘any other officer
duly. authorized to grant the same, is satisfied that the tax payable under sub-section (3) has been duly
paid or'that satisfactory ‘arrangements have been. made for the payment thereof.

(6) The tax paid shall be deemed to be the final discharge of the tax liability of the assessee under IT Act,1984
and the assessee shall not be required to file the return of total income under section 166 nor shall he be.
entitled to claim any refund or adjustment on the basis of such return.

21.9 _ Liability to tax in case of air transport business of non-residents: Section 260

(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, where a non-resident person carries on: the business of
operation of aircraft, as the owner or charterer thereof (hereinafter in this section referred to as “the
principal”), and any aircraft owned or chartered by him calls on any‘airport' in Bangladesh, the aggregate
of the receipts arising from the.carriage or passengers, livestock, mail or goods loaded at the said airport
into that aircraft shall be deemed to be income received in Bangladesh by the principal from the said
business chargeable to tax under the head “Income ‘from business. or profession”, and tax thereon shall
be charged at the rate of 3% of such income..

(2) The principal or an agent authorized by him in this behalf shall prepare and furnish to the DCT, within 45
days from the:last:day of each quarter of every financial year, that is:to'say,, the thirtieth day of September,
the thirty-first day December, the thirty-first day of March and the thirtieth day of June, respectively, return
in respect of each quarter as aforesaid showing -

(a) the amount paid or payable whether in or out of Bangladesh to the principal, or to any person on his behalf,
on account of the carriage of passengers, livestock, mail or goods loaded at the said airport; and.

(c) the-amount received,.or deemed to be received, in Bangladesh by, or-on behalf of, the principal 01 account
of the.carriage of passengers, livestock, mail or goods at. any airport outside Bangladesh.

(3) On receipt. of the return, the DCT may, after calling for such particulars, accounts or documents, as he
may require, determine the aggregate of the amounts referred to in sub-section (2), and charge tax as laid
down in sub-section (1)-

(4) Where, the. principal fails. to pay the tax payable under sub-section (1) for more than 3 months, the
Commissioner of Taxes may issue to the authority by whom clearance may be granted to that aircraft, a
certificate containing the name of the principal and the amount of tax payable by him; and on receipt, of
such certificate, the said authority shall refuse clearance. from any airport in Bangladesh to any aircraft
owned or-chartered by such person until the tax payable has been paid.

(5) The tax paid as per this section shall be deemed to be the final discharge of the tax liability:of the assessee
under ITA, 2023.and the assesseée.shall hot bé required to file the return of total income Under section 166
nor shall he be entitled to claim any refund or adjustment.on the basis ‘of'such return.

Thus, Sections.259 and 260 of ITA, 2023, prescribe the tax rates:on income of non-residents.involved with
shipping and air transport. business which may be: mentioned below:
‘Shipping 8% Master of ship Final discharge of tax
liability
Air transport] 3% Principal or agent Final discharge of tax
liability
Page | 339

দো |) a. PEE, Z|
ESS CS ee Of ss, Ne |
SS ERR ee TY aay Sa I
Chapter’ 22
Special provisions relating to avoidance of tax
(Contents |
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list
© 22.1 ' Avoidance of tax through transactions with non-residents i
| 22.2 1 Avoidance of tax through transfer of assets
22.3 Avoidance of tax by trarisactions in securities ,
| 22.4 : Tax clearance certificate required for persons leaving Bangladesh :
| 225 | Form of tax clearance and exemption certificates |
22:6 Production of certificate: of tax clearance. or exeniption certificate. |
22:7 | Exemption from production of tax clearance certificate ।
[Introduction ,
Learning objectives
দ Identify the. measure in case of:avoidance of tax through transactions with nonresidents
« Define:the avoidance of tax through transfer of assets and transaction in securities
দ Recognize the conditions and rules for tax clearance. certificate required for persons leaving Bangladesh.
» Demonstrate the different forms for tax clearance and tax exemption certificate.
« Mention the conditions for:exemption from production of tax'clearance certificate.
Practical significance
The tax authorities have some. measures in case of avoidance of tax through transactions with. non-
residents, transfer of assets:and transaction in securities. The tax authorities. can determine the reasonable
amount of income in certain cases of such avoidance.
Page | 340

Subject to some exceptions and conditions, a person who is not domiciled in Bangladesh, or a person
who 6979 doriiciled in Barigladesh at. the tinie of his departure: is required to. obtain a tax clearance
certificate or tax,exemption certificate as the.case.may be.
Stop and think
There are some measures with tax authorities in case of avoidance of tax in certain cases. Do you think
that any person can still avoid tax by any means?
Working context
In case: of avoidance of ‘tax ‘through transaction with non-resident or otherwise, éither intentional or
unintentional, the tax clients are facing many problems'from tax authorities. Sometimes they think that the
measures taken by tax. authorities are not in line-with justice. In such a case accountant can help them by
providing the expert service.in this regard.
The accountants also can support by giving advice to his client in case of tax clearance/exemption
certificate required for him while leaving Bangladesh...
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are fundamental to. your understanding of income tax.
[Examination context |
Exam requirements
In the examination, candidates may be required to:
s Identify the. measure in case of avoidance of tax through transactions with nonresidents
# Define the avoidance of tax through transfer of assets.
2 Define'the avoidance of tax through transaction in securities.
দ Mention the conditions and rules for tax clearance certificate required for persons leaving Bangladesh..
দ Exhibit the different forms of tax clearance and tax.exemption certificates
দ Recognize 'the conditions for exemption ‘from production of tax clearance certificate.
Question practice
For question practice on these topics, go to the suggested answers covering this chapter:
22:0 SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO AVOIDANCE OF TAX
Section overview
> The tax authorities have some measures against avoidance of tax.
> Tax authorities can determine the reasonable.amount of income:in certain cases of tax avoidance.,
> Tax clearance or exemption certificate is required for some person leaving Bangladesh at the time of his.
departure.. .
> There are:some conditions for exemption from production of tax clearance certificate.
22.1 Avoidance of tax through transactions with non-residents: Section 240
Where any business is carried:on between a resident and a non-resident and it appears to the DCT that,
owing to the close connection between them, the affairs of business is so arranged that the business
transacted between them produces to thé resident either no profits of profits less than the ordinary profits
Page | 341

which might be expected to yield in that business, the DCT shall determine the amount of income which
may reasonably be considered to haVe accrued to the resident from such business and include such
‘amount in the total income of the resident.

22.2. Avoidance of tax through transfer of:assets: Section 241

(1) Any income which becomes payable toa non-resident, by virtue, or in consequence, of any transfer of
assets, whether alone or in conjunction with associated operation, shall be deemed to be the income of
the person who-

(a) has acquired, by means of such transfer or associated operations, any right by virtue; or in consequence,
of which he has the power‘to enjoy, whether forthwith or in:futuré, the. income which becomes so payable
to the non-resident; or

(b) has:received or is:entitled to receive at any time, for reasons attributable to such transactions ‘or associated
operations, any:sum paid or payable byway of loan or repayment of loan or'any other sum, not being a
sum paid or’payable as income:or for full consideration of money’ or money’s worth.

(2) The income which becomes payable to a non-resident and is deemed under sub-section (1), to be the
income of the person referred ‘to therein shall be so déemed for all purposes: of ITA, 2023 whether such
income would or would not have been chargeable to tax apart from the provisions of this section.

(3) The provisions ofthis section shall not operate if it is shown ‘to the satisfaction of the
DCT-

(a) that neither the transfer nor any associated operation had for its purpose, or for one.of its purposes, the

__ avoidance of liability to taxation; or

(b) that the transfer and all associated operations were bona fide commercial transaction and were not
designed for the purpose of avoiding liability to taxation.

(4) Where any’ person has been charged ‘to tax on any income which is deemed under sub-section (1) to be
his income, that income. shall not:again be:deemed to form part of his income for the purpose of ITA, 2023
if it is subsequently received by him whether as income or in:any other form.

(5) A-person:shall, forthe purposes of this section, be-deemed to have power to: enjoy the income payable to
a non-resident if-

(a) such income is in fact'so.dealt with as to bé.calculated to ensure at any time for the benefit of such person
in any form; or

(b) the ‘receipt or accrual of such income. operates to increase the value of any assets held by:such person‘or
forhis, benefit; or

(0): such person. receives:or is entitled to receive at any time any benefit provided or to be provided-

(i) out of such income; or

(ii) out.of:money'which is, or will be, available for the purpose by reason of the effect or successive effects of
associated operations on.such income and on any assets representing the income; or

(0) such person has, by means of the exercise of any power‘of appointment, revocation or otherwise, power
to obtain for himself, with or without the consent of any other person, the beneficial enjoyment of such
‘income: or

(e) such person is able to control, directly or indirectly, the application of such income, in any manner
whatsoever.

(6) In determining whether a person has power to enjoy income, regard shall be had to the substantial result
and effect of the transfer‘and any associated operation, and to all benefits which may at any time accrue
to such person as a result of the transfer and associated operations irrespective of the nature or form of
the benefit.

Explanation: For the. purposes. of this.section—
Page | 342

(a) ‘assets’ includes property or rights of any kind and ‘transfer’ in relation to assets being rights, includes.
creation of those rights;

(b) ‘Associated operation’, in relation to any transfer, means an operation of any kind effected by any person
in relation to- . .

(i) ‘any of the assets transferred; or

(ii) any income. arising from such assets; or

(iii) any assets representing, directly or indirectly, any of the assets transferred, or the. accumulation’ of the
incomeé.arising from such. assets;

(c) ‘benefit’ includes a payment of any: kind:

(0) references to assets representing any assets transferred, or-any income.or accumulation of income-arising
there from, includes references to:shares in or obligation of any company to which, or the obligation of any
other’ person to whom, any such assets or that income or accumulation of income is or has been
transferred, and

(6) anybody corporate incorporated outside Bangladesh shall be treated as if it. were. a non-resident.

22.3. Avoidance of tax by transactions in securities: Section 242

(1) Where the owner of any securities sells or transfers those securities and buys them back or re-acquires
them, or buys or acquires similar securities, and the result of the transaction is that any interest becoming
payable in respect of the original securities:sold or transferred by the owner is not receivable by the owner,
the interést payable.as aforesaid. shall be deemed, for all purposes of ITA, ‘2023 to bé the income of such
owner and not of any other person, whetherthe interest payable: as aforesaid would or would not have
been chargeable to tax:apart from the provisions of this ‘subsection.

(2) Where any person has had for any period during an income year any beneficial interest in any securities
and the result of any transactions within that year relating to such securities or the income thereof is that
no income is. received by him, or that the income received by him is less than the sum, which the. income
would have. amounted ‘to, had the income from. such securities accrued ‘from day to day, and been
apportioned to the said period, then the:income from such securities for the said period shall be deemed
to be the income of'such person.

(3) Where, any person carrying on a business which consists wholly:or partly in dealing in securities buys or
acquires. any securities from any other person and either sells back or re-transfers those securities, or
sells. or similar securities, to such other person, and ‘the result of the transactions is thatthe. interest
becoming payable in respect.of the securities boiight or acquired by hiri is teceivable by him but is not
deemed to be his income by reason of the provisions of section 24201), no account shall be taken of the
transactions in computing for any of the purposes of ITA, 2023 any income arising from, or loss, sustained,
in the business.

(4) The DCT may, by notice in'writing, require any person to furnish him, within such time, not being less than
28 days, as may be specified in the notice, such particulars in respect of all securities of which such person
was. the. owner, or in which he had beneficial interest:at.any time during the period specified in the notice,.
as the DCT may consider necessary for the purpose of ascertaining whether tax. has been borne in respect
of the.interest on all those securities and also for other purposes of this ‘section.

Explanation: For the purposes:of this: section-

(a) ‘interest’ includes dividend;

(b) securities shall be deemed to be similar if they entitle their holders to the same right against the same
persons as to capital and interest and the same remedies for the enforcement of these rights,
notwithstanding any difference in the total nominal amounts of the respective securities or in the form in
Which they are held or in the manner‘in which'they'can be transferred.

22.4 Taxclearance certificate required for persons leaving Bangladesh: Section 243
Page: |343

(1) A person who is not domiciled in Bangladesh, or a. person who being domiciled in Bangladesh at the time
of his departure is not; in the opinion of an income tax authority’ likely’to return. to Bangladesh, shall not
leave Bangladesh without obtaining from the DCT authorized in this behalf by the NBR-

(a) a tax clearance certificate, or

(8) if he has intention of returning to Bangladesh, an exemption certificate which shall be issued only if the
DCT is satisfied that.such person has such intention; and such exemption certificate may be either fora
‘single journey or for all journeys within the period ‘specified in the certificate [section 107(1)].

(2) The owner or charterer of any ship or aircraft, who issues any authority to any person. referred to in sub-
section (1) for travel by such ship or aircraft from any place.in Bangladesh to any place outside Bangladesh
unless such person has a certificate required by that section, shall-

(a) be liable to pay the amount of tax, if any, which has or may become due and payable by such person:and

__ also to a penalty which may extend to two thousand taka; and ; রা

(b) be deemed, for the purposes of recovery of such tax and penalty, to be:an assessee in default, and all the

~ provisions of this:Act shall apply accordingly.
Explanation: For the purposes of section 243-

a) ‘exemption certificate’, in relation to any person, means a certificate. to the effect that such
person is. exempt from:the requirement of having a tax clearance. certificate-for the purpose. of the
journey or journeys specified therein;

b) ‘owner’ or ‘charterer’ includes any representative, agent or employee who may be: empowered
bythe owner or charterer of a ship or aircraft to issue an authority to travel by the ship or aircraft;
and.

c) ‘tax clearance. certificate’, in relation to a person, means a certificate to the effect that such
person has no liability under ITA, 2023:and the Gift-tax Act, 1990, or that'satisfactory arrangements
have been made for the payment:of.all or any of such taxes which are or may become payable by
which person.

22.5 Form of tax clearance and tax exemption certificates [Rule 61]:
(1) Every application for a tax clearance certificate or an exemption certificate shall be made as per rule 61,
in the following form:
Application ‘for-a certificate under'section 243 of the Income Tax Act, 2023:
To
‘The Deputy Commissioner of Taxes.
| request that a tax clearance/exemption certificate be granted to me. Necessary particulars are
given below.
1. Name 61800008702
(in block. letters).
2: Domicile:-.-. ৬৩৩৬ wets তাতাতাতী ele Bele eo 0 তাত cree ত চাতক তত তাত one es তাত তকে woe তাত ee ee ee cee
3. 6165ভ1780016৪3৪১ ১১১১১৬১১১১১ cece cece cence eee cents
এ. Permanent 8001633১১১১১১১০১১১১১১১১১১১১১১ ১১০১১১১১১১০
5. Nature of Business or profession in Bangladesh -.2...-.
(if the visit to Bangladesh was made only as a tourist.and no income was earned during the period of.stay
in Bangladesh, it.should be so stated).
6. Place(s) at which the: business or profession is or was carried on,
Page | 344

7. Name and address of employer(s) of the applicant: (in case the applicant is representing a
firm ora company, the name-and address of the firm or company should be stated):
8. Name:of the: DCT, where last assessment of ‘the applicant:was made, /
Date of arrival in Bangladesh... 0.0.0. cose. eens eee ene cee তল
10. Probable date of departure... 0.0.20... . cee ee ees
12. Mode.of travel (air/sea/land). . 0... ences corer cae eens teens গা
Place: Yours faithfully;
Date: (Applicant)
14. 8. Please see the certificate.
When the applicant is an existing assessee, the. application should be addressed to the DCT who
completed the last assessment.
*Strike out whichever is inapplicable.
Form of certificate to be furnished by Employers/Associates/Agents/Head Office/Branch Office,
etc.
Certified thatis our employee/ representative/ associate.
1.
রা, (Name in block letters) 7
2. (i) Certified া80া816) is leaving Bangladesh temporarily on leave/duty and Will
19007 DY... 2.20 cons+eeeee (Give approximate date).
*(ii) Certified that his/her income was |éss‘than. the taxable minimum during ‘the. period(s).
(iii): A.cheque for the amount of tax due along with the computation of income is enclosed.
(iv) We undertake to pay’the tax liability, if any, When determined.
Signature ১২০১০ ২৯১১০০১১ ১০০০,
799191780017
Name and address of the Employers/Associates/Agents/Head Office/Branch Office
*Strike out whichever is inapplicable
Guarantee Certificate to be furnished by a tax payer in Bangladesh in the.case of persons who-are neither
employees nor representatives-of any firm.
Wel one cence s crete cueniee canescens eres epee eee certify (name in block letters) that
both t edhe ietni জনও গন এলি veins. নও Known to us/me and that we/I undertake to. pay
his/her tax liability, if any, when determined.
Signature of'the guarantor
Name and address. 2.00... je. ১০০৮১০০১০১০
Beye re
Page: |345

_. . ,, Tax clearance certificate issued by the DCT shall be in the following form:- __

‘Book: ‘No. Serial No.

Book: No: ‘SerialiNo-
‘Counterfoil of’ certificate :unde TAXES DEPARTMENT
ssection:243 ofthe’ .. . |
Income: Tax. Act, .2023. 001 ০ ভোয়াান্রেও।7061-5600017107-0গি76 Income:
2023) Tax:Act;.2023 (XIl.of:2023)
Name
-Present address ! 07016.
লা Place
Business of professior Date
Date, ঠা :arrival in: Bangladest This‘is'to certify that.
‘Date’ ০27 departure of, (whose’signature or thumb:impression’is affixec:

below): has: no. liability made’ ‘satisfactory arrangements ‘fo.

:(as‘stated:in‘the-application ) his/Kér liabilitiés:under the Incomé Tax"Act; 2023 সো 2023)
‘Date’up.to-whick 06:080060881$ oF thie. Gift TAX‘ACt! 1990:(XLIV'of 1990); This. Gertificate'is WValic:
.Challan No: and/dateof;paymen
‘of tax _ ‘Signature :of left
"hand: thumb inipression of’ the
‘Deputy Commissioner of Taxes
__..___. Circle:.

Page | 346

a. Girele:, Thumb. impression:of the:Person: named’ In: the:Certificate:
Exemption certificate issued by the DCT shall be in the following form:.
[BookNo:——=«d:SevialNe,——~S=*dY: Boo. ][ভপমাচ ]
‘Counterfoil of. -certificate unde TAXES DEPARTMENT
ssection.107.0fthe . |. ee
Income: Tax, ‘Act; 2023 (XIl' o Certificate:under-section:107:of The Income’
2023) Tax:Act,, 2023 00116602023)
Date: . Office of the Deputy Commissioner of: Taxés'
“Present addres: Place
‘Date: of arrival. in Barigladést This is t6 certify that.
Date ০0 departure or thumb:impression'is affixed'below) is:exempted-from producing
evidence of payment:of-taxes; in‘;connection'with:his:journey toval..
(asistated'imthe’application) journey performed. before: .
Deputy: Commissioner: of Taxes
Signature
Signature: -or ileft-hand: thumt Deputy:Commissioner of
impression of the Person.namec Taxes,.. .... ১০৩99 a
‘in’ the: certificate This certificate:i¢ Signature. or left-hand: Thumb impression:of the:Person.named:it
valid:up to: the ‘certificate -
22.6 Production of certificate of tax clearance.or exemption certificate before any officer of immigration
01005001175 [Rule 62]:
Page: |347

(1) Subject to the provisions of rule 63; every person who is not domiciled in Bangladesh shall be ‘required to
produce: a tax clearance certificate or exemption certificate to an officer of immigration or customs for
examination before he leaves Bangladesh.

(2) In the case of a person who claims to be domiciled in Bangladesh, the officer of immigration or customs
may accept any of the following evidences of nationality, namely:

a) apassportissued by the Government; or

b) a certificate of nationality or domicile issued by.a District Magistrate or the Government.

22.7 Exemption from production of tax clearance ‘certificate [Rule 63]: The following exceptions are made
‘under section 243 of Income Tax Act, 2023 namely:
(1) all person below the age of 18 years [rule 63(a)];
(2) passengers who can show 0% 076. dates:stamped on their passports or by other reliable evidence; that-
| they have not.spent more. than 90 days. at.a time in Bangladesh; and .
ii they have not spent more'than 90 days in any financial yearin Bangladesh [rule 63(b)];

(3) all members of diplomatic, trade. or commercial missions appointed by foreign Governments, trade
commissioners and consul democratic and all full-time employees of such diplomatic missions, trade
commissioners and consular officers [rule-63(f)];

(4) all officers:and employees of foreign Government visiting Bangladesh on duty [rule 63(g)];

(5) the wives and dependents of persons covered by rules 63(f) and (h) [rule 63(h)];

(6) Woman who gives a declaration ‘to the effect that she is ‘wholly dependent upon her husband, parent or
guardian and has fo indepéndent.source of income [rule 63(i)].

Page | 348

বস RON Se NG Ante ee eas:
Chapter 23
Powers of income tax authorities including search and seizure
‘(Contents |
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list
Bi ttt মম লব
2327 Powertocallforinformation == si itststi—‘“< OW
23.3: | Power toinspect registers.of companies
23.4 Power of survey ।
Enquiries and inspection
| 23.6 | Powerofsearchand লো আদম
৩37 Power to ঘি deduction orcollectionoftax = ati (i(‘( rt;*;*;*;*;”;~;~TM”TM””CTM
Retention ofseizedassets. = ttCSTS তাত জি eee ছা তত ;
23897 Application ofretainedassets = tt ti ( i‘;
| 23.10) Power of IJCT to revise ordersof DCT = ।
23.11 | Revisional power of Commissioner ;
23:42.) Powertotakeevidenceonoath.etc = = = ©.
|[Introduction |
Learning objectives
« Identify the. power of respective. income tax. authorities to call for information.
দ Identify the. power to inspect the registers of company
দ 1২60০810179 076 power of'survey.
দ Demonstrate the additional power of enquiry and requiring the production of documents.
৭. Power'of search and seizure.
« Power to verify withholding taxes. ;
# Right‘to.retain the Seized assets: and application thereof.
e Power-of'revision of orders.
» Power to take evidence on oath.
Page | 349

Practical significance
To carry out the responsibilities and ensure compliance in adopting different. rules, respective income tax
authorities have been given sufficient powers. Such powers may be to call for information, inspect the
registers, conduct survey, require for documents, ‘search and seizure, verify deduction and ‘collection of
taxes, retaining seized assets, revise orders‘and take evidence of oath.
For different assesses, it.is very important as they require: to know the power of authorities so that they
can. comply with the. specific requirements,
Stop and think
Respective income tax authorities enjoy required powers to carry out their job smoothly. Do you think that
you know. all of such powers applicable to different income tax authorities?
Working context
Powers of income. tax authorities, aré very important for both income tax authoritiés and assésses.
Accountants can provide valuable advises to clients in case of non-compliance and any type of failures if
they know the power of income tax authorities properly. It;will be: helpful for the client-to avoid excessive
penalty or other types of‘punishment. It.is also an important partof'tax planning.
The accountants can also support by giving advice to his client in case of powers already ‘exercised by
income tax authorities for non-compliance or failures.
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are fundamental to. your understanding of income tax.
[Examination context
Exam requirements.
In the examination, candidates may be required to:
« Mention the power of income tax authorities to call for‘information
s Identify the: power to inspect the registers of company
« Demonstrate the additional power of enquiry and requiring the production of documents
« Power of-search and seizure
দ Power to verify the deduction and collection of taxes.
# Right:to retain the seized assets and application thereof.
দ Power'of revision. of orders.
» Power to take evidence on oath.
Question practice
For question practice on these topics, go to the.suggested answers covering this chapter.
23.0 POWERS OF INCOME TAX AUTHORITIES INCLUDING SEARCH AND SEIZURE
Section overview
> The tax authorities enjoy powers to exercise required jobs and responsibilities.
> Tax authorities have powérs to search and seize assets.and rétain them.
> Tax authorities may verify the documents:of withholding taxes.
> Tax authorities may revise the orders already passed in respective cases.
Page | 350

23.1 Introduction.
Income tax authorities enjoy the power.of search and seizure of books of accounts, records, documents
and moveable properties after searching through the business premises, residential building, vessel,
aircraft, or any other places belonging, to a person. This chapter covers required provisions under ITA,
2023 regarding such power of income tax authorities.

23.2: Power'to call forinformation: Section 200
Officials holding a rank not lower than that of Deputy Commissioner of Taxes (DCT) are authorized to
request information by issuing a notice in accordance with the prescribed manner and time stipulated in
the notice, as part of their duties under this:Act. Furthermore, any officer with a rank not lower than that of
DCT is entitled to request information to facilitate the resolution of investigations pertaining to disputed
matters or ongoing proceedings under this.Act. Such requests should adhere to the manner and timeline
specified in the written notice or-communicated through electronic.means.
However, officers operating under the Gommissioner:of Tax are prohibited from soliciting information from
banks or financial institutions without, obtaining the prior approval of the Commissioner of Taxes.

23.3. Power to inspect records of business: Section 202
Any income tax authority has the right to require an individual or business to furnish records, or copies of
récords that are pertinent to:any investigation or ongoing proceeding conceming unresolved matters under
the Income Tax.Act,'2023.

23.4 Power of survey: Section 205
Section .205 of the Income Tax Act, 2023,. empowers the Board or the Commissioner of Taxes to grant
authorization to income ‘tax authorities for conducting surveys to evaluate the tax liability of person under
the Act. This authorization allows ificome tax authorities ‘to enter premises. where: business operations
occuror rental income is generated. The entry is subject to specific conditions: during business hours for
places of business activities and between sunrise and sunset for other cases. Within, these premises, the
income tax authority is authorized to undertake several actions, including collécting copies or summaries
from income, assets, or liability records, securing and inventorying income-related records, documenting
statements from relevant individuals, and making necessary inquiries.
lndividuals:associateéd ‘with the: business or residirig it the.prémises are obligated to cooperate by providing
access to records. and documents, facilitating inspections, and offering information as required for the
proceedings: under: the Act. Notably, while income tax authorities possess considerable powers. for
inspection and inquiry,.they are.restricted from removing cash, stock, or'valuable itéms'from the premises,
except as specified under section 206 of the Act. No income tax authority without permission of
Commissioner of Taxes shall hold the:seized items for more than one month. Income tax authority except
Tax Inspector, shall have same power vested under section 223(1) in case. of non-cooperations in
performing duties under this.section.

23.5. Enquiries and inspection: Section 204
Inspecting income tax: authority may make any enquiry which they consider necessary as respects any
person liable, or believed by them to be liable, to assessment under ITA, 2023 or require any such person
or any other person in relation to such enquiry'to. appear before him at the time and place. as directed for
providing any ‘information or to produce or cause to be produced necessary documents.
Board will publish a manual in support of enquiries and inspections to fulfil the purpose of this section.

Page | 351.

23.6 Power of search and seizure: Section 206.

Section 206 of the Income Tax Act, 2023 lays:out,the provisions regarding the power of search and: seizure.
According to this section, when the inspecting income tax. authority has reasonable belief based on
‘information in the. possession of'the Board or inspecting income’‘tax authority, he, can exercise the powers
mentioned in subsection (3).. These powers include the authority to enter and search various locations,
such.as buildings, vessels, vehicles, and aircrafts, where there is suspicion that specific items like books
of accounts, documents, electronic: records, money, bullion, jewelry; or other valuables ‘subject to the.
income. Tax Act have been concealed.
The authorized officer is empowered to break locks if necessary, search individuals, seize relevant items,
place marks of identification on documents, and even access electronic records by bypassing password
protection.
The authorized officer can also.seek assistance from police officers, government officials, or professional
experts. If seizure isn't possible, the officer can issue an order preventing the removal or disposal of the
items. Statements made during the search can be used as evidence in proceedings: under the Act, and
the possession of items found during a search is considered evidence of ownership and accuracy.
Procedures for copying, seized documents, retaining them, and objéctions to reténtion are defined, with
specific time limits. The Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, applies'to search and seizure processes, and
the term "proceeding" includes pending and future actions under the-Act.

23.7 Power to verify deduction or collection of tax: Section 147
Authority empowered in writing from the Commissioner of Taxes or Direct General, Tax Inspector or DG,
Central Intelligence. Cell‘for'the purpose of verification of tax deducted and collectéd at source can:
(a) In relation to a person or entities, get access to any place, goods, accounts or record of economic
activities keptin any means, any encrypted or formatted data kept in computer systems, electronic record
or systems and extract them, break password to get access, analyze information, books of accounts,
documents, image or inputs, mark or stamp'on the books of accounts and other documents, get an extract
or copy them, seize of kept in hold of the same, order someone to. do or not to do activities:
(b) can accompany appropriate expertise 01909110165;
(c):authorities are empowered to fine a person up to Tk. 50,00,000 in case any barrier, noncooperation
caused in performing the above works;
(0) for failure to. comply with this section, DCT may realize tax and penalty upon recording the person’s
explanation, if available.

23.8 Retention of:seized assets: Section 209

(1) When any money, bullion, jewelry, or other valuable article or item (referred to as ‘assets') is seized under
section 206 and handed over‘to:the Deputy Commissioner of Taxes (DCT), the provisions of sub-section
(2):shall be applied:

(2) The DCT shall, within 90 days 0076 seizure, provide the. individual concerned with a fair opportunity to
present their case and conduct an inquiry. Based on this, the DCT will make a decision using their best
judgment.to.estimate undisclosed income or income from assets. They will then calculate the associated
tax and other charges, including taxes in. default.

(3) This 90-day period shall not include any time resulting from orders or sanctions.

Page | 352

(4) In cases where the income and related tax cannot be determined for the income year connected to the
seized assets of any portion thereof, the DCT may consider the ificome year in which the assets ‘were
seized.

(5) Upon obtaining permission from the Commissioner of Taxes, the DCT may issue a notice to:demand the
‘amount determined under'sub-section 2(b).

(6) If the person takes-satisfactory measures to pay the demanded amount, the DCT shall release the seized
assets: Otherwise, they may take appropriate. actions as they deem fit.

(7) If satisfactory measures are not taken to settle the demanded amount, the person shall be deemed a
defaulter for thé unpaid sum. Thé DCT may retain a portion of the asset that is sufficient to. cover the
defaulted demand.

(8) If the person ‘to. whom the demand notice is. served feels aggrieved, they have the right to submit written
complaints. Upon being given a reasonable opportunity fora hearirig, the DCT shall issue an appropriate
order. .

23.9 Application of retained assets: Section 210

(1) Where the assets retained under sub-section (7) of section.206 consist:solely-of money, or partly of money

__ and partly of other assets, - oo

(a) the DCT shall first. apply such money towards payment of the amount in respect of which the person

~ concerned is deemed to be an assessee in default under that sub-section; and thereupon such person
‘shall be. discharged of his liability 0 076 extent of the money so applied; and

(b) where, after application of the money under clause (a), any part:of the amount referred to therein remains
unpaid, the DCT may recover the amount.remaining unpaid, by sale of such of the assets as do not consist
of money in the manner movable property may be sold by a Tax Recovery Officer (TRO) for the recovery
of'tax; and for'this purpose, hé shall have all the powers of a TRO under ITA.

(2) Nothing contained in sub-section (1) shall preclude the recovery of the amount referred to in section 206
(7) by any other mode provided in ITA ‘for'the. recovery of any liability of an asséssee in 0680.

(3) Any assets or proceeds thereof which remain after the discharge of the liability in respect of the amount
referred to in section 206 (7) shall forthwith be made over or paid to the persons from whose custody the
assets were seized.

23.10 Power of IJCT to. revise order of DCT: Section 213

The lJCT may request information from the DCT (Deputy'Commissioner of Taxes).and review the records
of any proceeding under the Income Tax Act. If the IJCT believes that any order issued by the DCT is
erroneous, to ‘the. extent'that it adversely affects the interests of the. revenue, the IJCT may, after giving
the assessee.an opportunity to be heard, and after conducting any necessary inquiry, issue-an appropriate
order. This order could involve enhancing or modifying the:assessment, cancelling the assessment, or
directing a fresh assessment to be conducted within four years from the date of the order that is. being
considered ‘for revision.

Nothing in section 212 shall bar any proceeding under this section in applicable cases.

Here, return shall deem to be erroneous if:

(a) heads of income is wrong in'the order,

(b) in developing order, provision of law have been wrongly interpreted;

(c) provide orders without'verifications where it Was necessary to verify;

(d) issue-order upon accepting tax rebate without verifying that;

(6) provide order without complying with orders, instruction under section 10;

(f) it is certainly. confirmed upon seeing the order'that order was erroneous.

Page: | 353

23.11 Revisional power of Commissioner: Section 285

(1) The Commissioner may on an application made by the assessee, call for the record of any proceeding
under ITA in which:an order has been passed by any authority subordinate to him and may make. such
enquiry or cause such enquiry to be made and, subject 'to the provisions of ITA, may pass’ such order
thereon, not being an order prejudicial to the assessee, as he thinks fit.

(2) The application for revision of an order undér ITA passéd by any authority Subordinate to the

' Commissioner shall be made within 60. days of the date. on which such order is communicated to the
assessee or within such further period as the Commissioner may ‘consider fit to allow on being satisfied
that the assessee was prevented by sufficient cause from. making the application within the said 60 days:

(3) The Commissioner shall not.exercise his power in respect of any. order-

(a) where an appeal against the order lies to the AJCT or to the Commissioner (Appeals) or to the Appellate
Tribunal and the time within which such appeal may be made has not expired or the assessee has: not

_ waived his right-of appeal; or

(b) where'the order is pending on an appeal before the AJCT or it has been made the subject:of an appeal to
the Commissioner (Appeals) 000 the Appellate Tribunal.

(4) No application under sub-section (1) shall be entertained unless-

(a) it is accompanied by a fee of two hundred taka; and
(b) the undisputed portion of the tax has been paid.
Explanation- The "undisputed portion of the tax” means the tax payable under section 173.

(5) For the purposes:of this section, an order by the Commissioner declining to interfere shall not.be.construed
as an order préjudicial:to the assessee.

(6) Notwithstanding anything contained in IT Act, an application for revision made under sub-section (1) shall
be deeméd to have been allowed if the Corimissioner fails:to make an, ordér thereon within a period of 60
days from the date of filing the application.

(7) For the purposes. of this section, the AJCT ‘shall be deemed to. be. an authority subordinate ‘to the
Commissioner to whom the DCT, whose: order was the subject-matter of the appeal order under revision,
is subordinate.

23.12 Power to take evidence on oath, etc:: Section 211

(1) The DCT, the ICT, the Commissioner, the DG, Central Intelligence ‘Cell, the: Commissioner (Appeals).and
the Taxes Appellate Tribunal shall, for the purposes of IT Act, have. the same powers as. are vested ina
Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act V of 1908), when trying a-suit in respect of the following
matters, namely:

(a) discovery and inspection;
(b) enforcing the attendance of any person and examining him on oath or
affirmation;
(০) conipélling ‘the: production of accounts or documents (including accounts or documents relating to any
period prior‘or subsequent to the income year); and
(d) issuing commissions for the examination of witness.
(2) The DCT shall not.exercise his powers under this section for the purpose of enforcing the attendance of
"an employee of'a scheduled bank as a witness or compelling the production of books of account of such
a bank except with the prior approval of the Commissioner.
Page | 354

(3) Any authority mentioned in sub-section (1) may impound and retain in its custody for such period as it
considers fit, any books of accounts or other documents produced before. it in-any proceeding Under ITA.

(4) DCT shall not size any documents related to the income without record the reason, or without permission
of chief commissioner: or commissioner. he shall not retain. income related document ‘for more ‘than 15
days excluding public holidays.

(5) Any proceeding under IT Act, before any authority mentioned in sub-section (1), shall be deemed to be.a
judicial proceeding Within the meaning of section 193 and 128, and for the purposes of section 196, of the
Penal Code (Act XLV of 1860).

(6) Proceeding or any order under this section shall bé consider-as, the order of the civil court.

Page:|355

Chapter 24
Penalty
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list
| 242 | “Penalty for not maintaining accounts in the préscribed manner |
এও Penalty for failure to file return, certificate, statement, accounts or information
244 24.4 | Penalty for using fake Tax-payer's Identification Number
(245 “Penalty for failure to pay advance tax |
Penalty for non-compliance with notice
Penalty for failure to pay tax on the basis of return
Penalty for concealment of income
Penalty for default in payment oftax
24.10. | Bar'to imposition of penalty'without hearing
24.11 | Previous approval of IJCT for imposing penalty
24412 | Orders forpenaltytobe senttoDCT =
~ 24.13 | Penalty to be without Prejudice to other liability
~ 24.14 | Revision of penalty based on revised income —
নাভ rie “'"Slignces and prosecution আআ সতত |
|[Introduction
Learning objectives
« Mention the different non-comipliances. of tax:law for which penalties are imposed.
s. Identify the penalties due‘to non-compliance of tax law in certain cases.
« Define the measures against any order of penalty.
Page | 356

Practical significance
If any: person without any reasonable.cause failed to comply: with tax law.in certain cases the tax authorities
may impose penalty on that person. There are requirements by tax law such as. maintaining of accounts
in the prescribed manner, filing of return, statements, accounts or information, payment of advance tax,
compliance with notices, payment of tax.on the basis of return ete. Non-compliance of these requirements
may cause to penalties payable by the persons for such non-compliances. Concealment.of income and
default in payment of'tax are also caused penalties.
No penalties: mentioned here shall be made: on any person unless: such person has. been heard or has,
been given a reasonable opportunity-of beirig heard. The imposition of any penalty on-any person shall be
without prejudice to any other liability.
Stop and think
Did you realize how important it is to. ensure the compliance. of the requirements of tax law mentioned in
this chapter for avoiding penalties? The penalties can be. quite extensive in some cases.
Working context
You need to know the consequences for’ non-compliance of the. requirements of tax law in this chapter:
You must keep it in mind that.the penalties may be: massive and imposition of penalties for such non-
compliance.can also harm the reputation ‘of the:assessee and his financial sustainability.
Thé accountants can help the clients to comply with all the requirements of tax law in this regard so that
the clients can avoid any such penalties and retain the esteem from tax authorities and stakeholders.
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are very important as it is dealt with the legal requirement of tax law.
‘(Examination context ;
Exam requirements.
In the éxarhination, candidates may be required to:
=» Identify the penalty for not maintaining accounts. in the. prescribed manner.
a |dentify the penalty for failure to file. return, statement, accounts or information.
« Identify the penalty for failure to pay advance: tax: and failure to pay tax on the basis of return.
দ Identify the penalty for non-compliance with notice, concealment of income and.default,in payment of tax.
দ Mention the bar to impose penalty.
দ Demonstrate the authority and procedures for imposition of penalty.
Question practice
For question practice on these topics, go to the.suggested answers covering this chapter:
Examiner's comments. on how students: should tackle questions
Candidates must remember the requirements of tax law in relation to imposition of penalty in case-of non-
compliance with the amount-or rate of penalties.
Page: |357

24.0 IMPOSITION OF PENALTY
Section overview
> Penalties can be imposed on any person for non-compliance of certain. tax law..
> The amount and rate of penalties can be varied in case to case.
> Unless.giving reasonable opportunity of being heard, no penalties.shall be imposed other than a few.
24.1 Introduction
Penalty is the: outcome of non-compliance of any provisions of ITA in any manner. Such penalties are
important to encourage compliance and establish equity at the time of imposing penalty. As per Part 19 of
Thé Income Tax Act, 2023 a. penalty may be imposed on following grounds:
a) for not maintaining accounts in the prescribed manner
b) ‘for'failure to file return, statement, accounts or information
০) for using fake Tax-payer's Identification Number (TIN)
d) for failure to pay advance'tax
e) for non-compliance with notices,
f) for'failure to pay tax based on return
g) for concealment of income
h): for default in payment of tax
Each of the above-mentioned failtires or non-comipliances is offence and subjéct to specific pénalty as pet
the provisions laid down in Part 19 of ITA, 2023 except penalty for default in payment of tax (h) above on
which penalty is imposed as per'the provisions laid down in section 275 of ITA, 2023.
24.2 Penalty for not maintaining accounts.in the prescribed manner: Section 267
‘Where any person, who does not have income from tangible assets, has, without reasonable cause, failed
to comply with ‘the: provisions of any order or rule made: in pursuance of, or for’the purposes of section
72(3), the DCT may impose on him a penalty—
(a) of-a sum fot exceeding one and a half times the amount of tax payable. by him; and
(8) Where the total income of such person does not exceed the maximum amount on which tax is not
chargeable, of a sum not exceeding Tk: 5,000.
Where any’ person. who has the income from tangible assets, without reasonable cause, failed to comply
with the provisions of any order or rule made in pursuance of, or for the purposes of section 72(3), the
DCT may impose on him a penalty up to:50%.of tax payable:on the income of tangible assets.or Tk. 5,000,
whichever is. higher.
24.3 Penalty for failure to file return, statement, accounts or information: Section 266

(1) Where any person has, without reasonable cause, failed to file a return of income required by or
under sections 166, 172, 191, 193 and 212, the DCT may impose upon such person a penalty
amounting to 10% of tax imposed on last assessed Income subject toa minimum of Tk. 1,000, and
in the case of a continuing default a further pénalty of Tk. 50 for every day during which the default
continues.

However, total amount of such penalty will not exceed Tk. 5,000 in case an individual who was not
previously assessed. And in case of existing individual assessee maximum penalty will not exceed
50% of last assessed tax or Tk.1,,000 whichever is higher.

(2) For non-submission of statement'or return u/s 177, DCT may impose penalty-at' 10% of lastiassesseéd
tax-or Tk. 5,000/ whichever is higher, and Tk. 1,000 per month or portion thereof for continuing default.

Page | 358

(3) For not providing certificate u/s 145, DCT may impose penalty for up to Tk: 5,000 and Tk. 1,000 per
month of portion thereof for continuing default.
(4) For failure. to provide information u/s 200, income tax authority who sougth such information may:
impose. penalty upto Tk. 50, 000 and Tk. 500 per-day for continuing default.
24.4 Penalty for using fake TIN: Section 268
Where a person has, ‘without reasonable cause, used TIN of another person or used fake TIN on
a,return of income or any other‘'documents where TIN is required under ITA,.the DCT may impose
a penalty not exceeding Tk. .20,000.on that person..
24.5 Penalty for failure to pay advance tax: Section 269
Where, during any proceeding in connection with the assessment of tax, the DCT is. satisfied that
any’person has—
(a) without reasonable. cause, failed to pay advance tax as. required by section 154; or
(b) furnished under section 155 any estimate. of tax payable. by him which he: knew, or had reason to
believe, to be untrue, he may impose upon such person a penalty of a sum not exceeding the
amount by which the tax actually paid by him falls short of the amount that:should have been paid.
24.6 Penalty for non-compliance of notice: Section 270
Where. any person has, without reasonable cause, failed to comply with any notice issued under
section 167, 168, 179, 181 or 183, the. DCT may impose on him a penalty not exceeding the
amount of tax chargeable on the total income of such person.
24.7 Penalty for failure to pay'tax based on return: Section 271
Where, in the course of any proceeding under the Act, the. DCT is satisfied that any person has
not paid tax as required by section 173, he. may impose upon‘such person a penalty of:a sum not
exceéding.25% of such portion of the-tax.as has not 86617 paid.
24.8 Penalty for concealment of income: Section 272
Where, in ‘the: course of arly proceeding under’the Act, any authority is satisfied that any’ person
has, either in the said proceeding or in any earlier proceeding relating to an assessment in respect
of the same. income year, provide information ‘in relation to his income, assets, liabilities, expenses
or other important information regarding payable amount incorrect that led evasion of payable
amount, may be penalized as:
a=evaded amount x 15%
b= evaded amount.x 10% x c
c=period of false information commencing from the year of occurrence and the year on which it is
discovered.
24.9 Penalty for default in payment. of tax: Section 275
Where an assessee is, in default or is deemed to be in default’ in making payment of tax, the DCT may.
direct that, in addition to the amount of tax in arrears, a sum not exceeding that.amount shall be recovered
from the assessee: by way of penalty:
24.10 Bar to imposition of penalty without hearing: section 280
No order ‘imposing a penalty under this Part shall be made on any person unless. such person has
been heard of has been given a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
Page | 359

24.11 Previous approval of ICT for imposing penalty: Section 281
The DCT shall not impose any penalty under this Chapter without the previous approval of the
IJCT except in'the. cases referred to in section 266, 275, 276, 277,278, and 279.
24.12 Orders for penalty to be-sent to DCT: Section 282
The Taxes Appellate Tribunal or ary income’‘tax authority other than DCT himself making:an order
imposing any penalty under this Part shall forthwith send a copy of the order to: the concerned
DCT; and thereupon all the provisions of the Act relating to the recovery: of penalty shall apply as
if such order were made by the DCT.
24.13 Penalty to be'without Prejudice to other liability: Section 283
The imposition on any person of any penalty under this Part shall be without prejudice to any other
liability which such person may incur, or may have incurred, under the:Act or under any other law
for the time being in force.
24.14 Revision of penalty based on revised income: Section 284
DCT shall revise the. penalty order during the process. of income revision, as per the order issued under
this Act. The amount of penalty cannot.be increased without providing a reasonable opportunity for the
assessee to be heard. If a revised penalty order is not issued and the taxpayer lodges an: application
requesting the DCT to revise the penalty amount, and if the revised order is not issued within 180 days.
from the. date of the application, then the order will be deemed as revised.
Ilustration-1 — 7 ; ; .
A client provided ‘you with the following information on income year 2021-22:
Particulars. Tk.
Taxable income from business 500,000
Taxable ‘income from house property 600,000.
Taxable income from other sources 350,000
He has also informed that income from hoUse property was derived from a residential flat owned by‘ him
and he:has not maintained accounts as per direction of the tax. authority.
Requirements:
Compute the amount of penalty to be imposed under section 267 of the ITA, 2023.
Solution of illustration-1
Name of Assessee: ABC
_ Income Year: 2021-22
Assessment Year: 2023-24
Income Tax Computation
[PaticarsSSC~—“—sSCSSSSC~éi‘iSTK~=«d
Taxable income from business 500,000
Taxable income from house property 600,000
Taxable income from other sources: 350,000
Total Taxable Income 1,450,000
Page | 360

Investment Allowance & Tax Credit:

Taxable Income (Tk.) Tax (Tk.)

3,50,000 ০১ | ০

1,00,000 5,000

3,00,000 30,000

4,00,000 60,000

3,00,000 60,000
Lower of: Tk.
(a) 15% of the actual Investment -
(b) 3% % of taxable income 4,650
(c) Tk. 10,00,000 1,000,000.
Income Tax Payable
(Tk. 155,000 —4,650) 150,350
Tax.Payable.on Income from House Property
[1,50,350/1,450,000x600,000] = 62,214
Penalty u/s 267 for not maintaining books of accounts:
(a) 50% of'tax payable on income from house property [50%X62,214], Tk. 31,107
(b) Tk. 5,000
Whichever is higher 31,107
Total Tax Payable Including Penalty (150,350+31,107) 181,457_

Page | 361

24.15 Offences and prosecution
IT Act 1984 presents the rules for punishment through sections 164 to 168 due to specified types of
offences. committed by. different classes of assessee. Such punishments in line with the offences are
presented below:
No prosecution for an offence punishable under any provisions shall be instituted except with the previous
‘sanction of the Board. The Board may compound such offence either before or‘after the institution of any.
‘proceedings or prosecution for a punishable offence.
with imprisonment for a term which may
Sec 311 non-compliance ‘of certain obligations, extend to one year, or with fine, or both
with imprisonment for a term Which may
312 Evade t ‘extend [0:5 years, but shall not be less than
১৪০৪ tax 6 months, or with fine, or both
with imprisonment for a term which may
313 False statement upon verified extend to:5 years, but shall not be less ‘than
6 months, or:with ‘fine, or both
with imprisonment for a term not exceeding
314 False certificate ohe year, but shall not be.less thar 3 months
with imprisonment which may extend to one
315 Failed to deduct or collect tax at source} years, or with fine, or’ With both
and deposit to treasury
with. imprisonment for a term not exceeding
316 False audited financial statements 5 years, but shall not'be less than 6 months
; with imprisonment for a term which may
317 Misuse of TIN extend to 1 year, or with fine up to Tk.
100,000 or both
with imprisonment for a term which may
318 For distracting income tax authority extend to 1 year, or with fine or both
Page | 362

— S| eI NS, নত ee
SSS SSS Se Sot ue ওল; শি = Bey aoa Fem.
Chapter 25
Recovery of tax
Contents
|[Introduction |
Examination context.
Topic list
B27 Penalty for default in payment of tax |
7254 Method of recovery by Tax Recovery Officer (TRO) SO
7288 Power of withdrawal of certificate. and stay of proceeding eee
O57" Recovery of tax'through Collector of District |
36877 Other modes of recovery eee
(Introduction |
Learning objectives
দ Define'the notice. of demand.
দ — Identify the penalty for default in payment of tax.
s Define the certificate for recovery. of tax.
« Identify the-different methods and modes of recovery‘of tax.
Practical significance
A ‘notice.of demand in the prescribed form shall be served upon the assessee specifying the.sum payable
and the time within which itis payable where any tax is payable:in consequence of any assessment made
or any order passed under or in pursuance of the Act.
An assessee in default or is deemed to be in default in making payment of tax may be directed to pay
penalty in addition to tax in arrears. For recovery of tax from an assessee in default, a certificate for
recovery of tax may be issued. The TRO upon receipt of that certificate can recover the tax in compliance
with the method and mode of Tfecovery‘as specified. Tax can also.be recovered by the'Collector of Districts
or through Special Magistrates. There are other modes of recovery mentioned in this chapter.
Page:|363

Stop and think
Do you have the idea about the method and mode of recovery of tax by the tax, authority? Do you know
about notice. of demand and penalty for default in payment of tax?
Working context
The tax authority has some procedures to récovery of taxes. They can serve notice: of demand; they:can
issue: certificate: for tax recovery. They can recover tax even through Collector of District or Special
Magistrate. They have also other modes of recovery. So, itis not easy for any assessee to get rid of from
payment of tax.. Besides an assessee in default .or is; deemed to be. in default in making payment of tax
‘may be penalized.
Accountants can suggest their clients to pay the tax on the basis: of assessment in due time. They can
aware the clients that making default in payment of tax may cause. to penalty in addition to ‘tax payable.
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this chapter are fundamental to your understanding of income tax..
[Examination context র্‌
Exam requirements.
In the examination, carididates may. be. required to:
« Define the notice of demand.
দ Identify the. penalty for default in making payment of tax.
« Define:the certificate for recovery of tax.
« Identify the. method of recovery by TRO.
৭. Define the power of withdrawal of certificate and stay of proceeding.
দ Define ‘the recovery of tax through Colléctor‘of District.
দ Define:the recovery of ‘tax through Special Magistrates.
« Identify other modes of recovery.
Question practice
For question practice on these topics, go to the-suggested answers covering this chapter:
25.0 RECOVERY OF TAX
Section overview
=> Notice of demand can be:served upon the assessee for recovery of tax
> Default assessee may be directed to pay penalty in addition to tax in arrears.
> Certificate of recovery may be issued for tax recovery. from default:assessee.
> Tax can also be recovered by the: Collector of Districts or through Special Magistrates.
> There are.different methods and modes of recovery’ of tax.,
25.1 Notice of demand: Section 214
(1) Where any tax is payable in consequence of any assessment made or any order passed under or in
‘pursuance of the Act, the DCT shall serve upon the assesseeé:a notice of demand in the prescribed form
specifying therein the sum payable and the time within which, and the manner’ in which, it is payable,
together with a: copy of an.assessment order.
Page | 364

(2) Where any tax'is refundable in consequence of any assessment made.or any order passed under‘this Act,
the DCT shall inform the assessee about the amount refundable and process. of réfund in the notice so
served under subsection (1) unless the refundable amountis adjusted with:outstanding under'section 225.

(3) No adjustment shall be made. against any dues. without giving the opportunity of hearing.

(4) Where the assessee: upon whom a notice of demand has been issued under section 214(1) makes an
application in this behalf before the expiry of the date of payment specified in the notice, the DCT may
extend the. time for payment or allow payment by installments subject to such conditions, including
payment of interest on the amount payable, as he may think fit in the.circumstances of the case.

(5) If the sum payable is not paid within the timé specified in ‘the notice of demand issued under sub-section
(1) or, as the case may be, within the time as extended under ‘sub-section (4), the assessee shall be
deemed to be in default.

(6) Where the assessee has. préserited an.appeal under this Act in respect of the assessmiént or imposition

of the tax or of the amount thereof, the DCT shall treat the assessee as not being in default for so long as
such appeal is not disposed of.

(7) If, ina case where payment by installment has been allowed under sub-section (4), the assessee commits
default in paying anyone of the installments within the time fixed thereof, the assessee shall be deemed
to be in default as ‘to the-whole of the amount then outstanding, and the other installments shall’ be deemed
to have. been due on the same date as the installment in respect of which default! has: actually’ been
committed was due for payment.

(8) Where an assessee has been assessed in respect of income arising outside. Bangladesh in a country the
laws of which prohibit or restrict the remittance of money to Bangladesh, the DCT shall not treat the
assessee as in default in respect.of that part of the. tax which is due in respect.of such amount of income
as: cannot, by reason of the prohibition or restriction, be brought into Bangladesh, and shall continue to
treat the assessee as not in default in respect of such part of the tax ‘until the prohibition or restriction is
removed.

(9) For thé purposes ofthis section, income shall be déeméd to have been brought into Bangladesh if it has
been or could have been utilized for the purposes of any expenditure actually incurred by the assessee
outside Bangladesh or if the income, whether capitalized or not, has been brought into Bangladesh in any
form.

25.2 Penalty for default in payment of tax: Section 275.
Where. an assessee is in default or is deemed to be in default in making payment of tax, the DCT may
direct that, in addition to the amount.of tax in arrears, a sum not exceeding that amount.shall be recovered
from the assessee. by way of penalty.

25.3. Certificate for recovery of tax: Section 216

1. When an assessee is in default or in deemed to be is default in making payment of tax, the DCT may
forward tothe TRO a certificate for recovery of the tax, under his.signature specifying the amount of arrears
due from the assessee; and such certificate may be issued notwithstanding that: proceedings for recovery
of the.arrears by any other mode have.been taken.

2. Acertificate under sub-section (1) may be forwarded to—

(a) the TRO within whose jurisdiction the assessee carried on his business or profession, or ‘the: principal

place of business or profession of the assessee is situate; or

(b) the TRO within whose jurisdiction the assessee resides, or any movable or immovable. property of the
assessee is situate; or

73586 | 365

(c) the TRO who has jurisdiction in relation to the assessee whose income is assessable by the DCT
forwarding the-certificate.

25.4 Method of recovery by Tax Recovery Officer (TRO): Section 217

1. Upon receipt of certificate forwarded to him under-section 216, the TRO shall proceed, in accordance with
the rules made in this behalf by the Board, to recover from the assessee the: amount specified in the
certificate by one or more-of the following modes, namely-

(a) attachment and sale, or sale without attachment, of any movable or immovable property of the assessee;

(b) arrest of the assessee.and his detention in prison;

(c) appointment of a receiver for the management of the movable arid immovable properties of the assessee:

2. While:recovering under sub-section (1) the amount specified in the: certificate:forwarded to him, the TRO
may also. recover in'the same. manner from the assessee in default, in addition to. such amount, any cost
and charges, including expenses on the service of any notice or warrant, incurred in the proceedings for
the recovery of the tax in arrears.

3. If the TRO to whom a Certificate is ‘forwarded under:section 216 is, not able to recover the entire amount
by the sale of movable and immovable properties of the assessee within his jurisdiction, but has
information that the assessee has property within the jurisdiction of another TRO, he may send the
certificate to such other TRO or to the TRO within whose jurisdiction the assessee resides; and the TRO
to whom the certificate.has been. so: sent shall proceéd to recover under Chaptér XVI the amount remaining
un-recovered as if the certificate was forwarded to him by the DCT.,

25.5 Power of withdrawal of certificate and stay of proceeding: Section 218

1: The DCT shall have power to: withdraw or correct any clerical or arithmetical error in the. certificate by
sending an intimation ‘to ‘that effect to the TRO.

2. Where the order giving rise: to a demand of tax for which a certificate for recovery has: been issued has
been modified in appeal or ‘other proceedings under this Act and, as a consequence thereof, the demand
is reduced but the order is the. subject’ matter of further proceedings under this Act, the DCT shall stay the
recovery of such part of the amount of the certificate as. pertains to the said reduction for the period for
which the appeal or other proceedings remain pending.

3. Where a-certificate for récovery has been issiied and stubsequently'‘the amount.of olltstanding demand is
reduced as a result of appeal or other proceedings under this Act, the DCT shall, when the order, which
was the subject matter of such appeal or other proceeding, has become final and conclusive, amend the
certificate or'withdraw it, as the case may. be.

4. The DCT shall communicate to the TRO any orders of cancellation, correction, stay of proceeding,
withdrawal or amendment, as the case may be, of.a certificate for recovery.

25:6 Validity of certificate for recovery not open to dispute: Section 219
When the DCT forwards a certificate for recovery urider-section 216 to a TRO, it shall not be open to:the
‘assessee to dispute before the TRO. the correctness of the assessment, and the TRO. shall not entertain
any objection to the certificate on any ground whatsoever.
25.7 Recovery of tax through Collector of District: Section 220

1. The DCT may forward to the Collector: of District in which the office of the DCT is’situate or’the district in
which the assésséeé resides or owns property or carries: on business of profession, ‘a certificate. under: his
signature specifying the amount-of arrears due from an assessee, and the Collector, on receipts of such
certificate, shall proceed to recover, from such assessee. the amount specified therein as if it were an
arrear of land revenue.

Page | 366

2. Without. prejudice to anyother powers which the Collector of District may have in this behalf, he shall, for
the purposes of recovery of the amount specified if the certificate for recovery forwarded toihim under sub-
section (1), have the powers: which a Civil Court. has under the Code of ‘Civil Procedure, 1908, for the
purposes of recovery of an amount due Under-.a decree.

3. The DCT may, at any time, recall from the Collector of District a certificate forwarded to him under sub-
‘section (1) and upon such recall, all proceeding commenced in pursuance of the certificate shall abate.
However, the recall of a certificate: shall not affect any recoveries made by'the Collector before the recall
as:if the.certificate had not, to the extent of such recovery, been recalled; nor shall the recall of a certificate
issued at any’ time: prevent the recovery, by issue of a fresh certificate, of any amount which was
recoverable atthe time the certificate.so récalled Was issued.

25.8 Other modes of recovery: Section 221

(1) Notwithstanding the issue of a certificate for recovery of tax Under section 216 or section 220, the DCT
may also recover the tax‘in the manner provided in sub-section (2) or (3).

(2) For the purpose .of recovery: of tax payable.by an assessee which is not.disputed in appeal to any appellate
forum, the DCT may, with the previous approval of the Commissioner, after giving the assessee an
opportunity of being heard, stop movement of any goods and services from the business premises of such
assessee and also shutdown such business premises till the recovery of the tax referred to. above or any
satisfactory arrangement has been made for the récovery of such tax.

(3) For the purposes of recovery of any tax payable by an assessee, the DCT may, by notice.in writing, require
following person to deposit'the. amount'or deduct tax and deposit to the treasury:

i. 19001] any money or goods of the assessee is due or may become due; .

ii. Who holds or controls the receipt or disposal of, or may subsequently hold, or control the receipt or
disposal of, any money or goods: of the assessee;

iii, Who hold, supervise or operate any assets of any kind of the assesses on his behalf;

iv. Who hold, supervise or operate any assets. of a non-resident assessee. as an agent or may
subsequently hold, supervise or operate;

v. Who.is responsible to disburse income from employment to‘the assessee;

vi. Who is. responsible to. pay rental income to the assessee.

(4) Person who has paid any sum as required by sub-section (3) shall be deemed to have. paid such sum
under the: authority of the assessee and the receipt by the DCT shall constitute a good and sufficient
discharge of the liability of such person to the assessee to the extent-of the sum specified in the receipt.

(5) lf the person to whom a notice under sub-section (3) is sent fails to: make payment or to make deductions
in pursuance. of the notice, he shall be deemed to be an assessee in default in respect of the amount
specified in the notice and proceedings may. be taken against him for realization of the amount as if it were
an arrear of tax due from him; and the provisions of this Chapter shall apply accordingly.

(6) The DCT may at any time amend or revoke any notice issued under sub-section (3) or extend the time for
making any payment in pursuance of such notice.

(7) DCT may‘direct respective authority to.disconnect or stop providing gas, electricity, water, or other services
for the purpose. of recovering arear’tax.and authority shall stop or disconnect the services within 21 days
upon receiving notice.

(8) Person shall be deemed to be the defaulter if he fails to comply with the notice and shall be personally
liable.

(9) Person shall restore the:connection as discussed in the sub-section (7) upon getting permission from DCT.

Page: |367

(10) In any area with respect. to which the Commissioner has directed that any arrears. may be
recovered by any process enforceable for the recovery’ of.an arrear-of any municipal tax of local
rate: imposed under any enactment for the time. being in force in any part of Bangladesh, the DCT
may proceed to recover the amount due by:such process.

(11) Commissioner shall determine the process.and responsibility of the.concern authorities to recover
‘tax'as per'statutory act or VAT and.SD Act 2012, or Customs Act 1969 with the municipal tax,
local tax,.arid other taxes under:sub-section (10)

Self-assessment question

Discuss briefly the salient features of the various provisions of the Income Tax Act, 2023. relating to
recovery of tax by the Tax Authorities.
Page | 368

রা রর রত
"/ পা পা A SENSE a SO ff TNS
SS Se SS Se ea oy at শি শ MR oie | OE er ee
: ia ee SoA eer) ২ ২২ ২ সস Pee apn i
Chapter 26
Double taxation relief
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list
| 26.1 | Double taxation—some basic concepts ..
"262 | Agreement of avoidance of doubie taxation
| 26.3 | Relief In respect of income arising outside Bangladesh
72834 Comparative picture of Doubié Tax Avoidance and tax relief ফী ঞীীা
26.5 | Methods of avoiding double taxation? How the methods work st—i‘s~TMSCS
“266 | Tax treaty EEE
“26.7 | Some other concepts used in DTAA শু ফফ২্ ৷
26.8 | OthertopicsinInternational Taxation === ati (i‘(‘i‘(aé‘( _
\[Introduction |
Learning objectives
দ Define the agreement to avoid double taxation. _ .
# Recognize the tax relief'in respect of income arising outside: Bangladesh.
Practical significance
The Government of Bangladesh may enter into an agreement with the Government ‘of any. other country
for the avoidance of double'taxation and the prevention of fiscal evasion with respect to income taxes. The
agreement can provide some provisions for implementation such as relief from the tax payable, recovery
of tax leviable under the Act and Under the. corresponding law in force in. that country etc.
If any person who is resident in Bangladesh in any year proves that he has paid tax.on any income for any.
income year outside Bangladesh in any country with which ‘there is no reciprocal agreement'for relief or
‘avoidance of double taxation, tax shall be deducted from the'tax payable by him under the Act, subject to
such rules as the NBR may make in this behalf, a sum equal to the tax calculated on such doubly taxed
income:at’the average rate of tax of Bangladesh or the average rate of tax of the said country, whichever
is the lower.
Page | 369

Stop and think.

Do you realize the impact.of agreement:to avoid double taxation? Do you know the list.of countries with
which Bangladesh has agreement to avoid double ‘taxation? Do ‘you know about the relief‘ in réspect. of
income arising outside Bangladesh?

Working context

Accountant can help their clients by giving advice with procedures to avoid double taxation. They should
have. the updated knowledge on various agreements for avoidance of double taxation with different
countries. Based on the provisions of these agreements they can support their clients in this régard.

\[Examination context

Exam requirements

In the examination, candidates may be required to:

2 Define the agreement to avoid double taxation.

BR Recognize the provision mentioned in agreement to avoid double taxation.

x — Identify. the relief in respect of income arising outside Bangladesh. _ 7 | .

= List the name of countries with whom Bangladesh has agreement 'for avoidance of double taxation.

Question practice

For question practice on these topics, go to the. suggested answers covering this chapter..

26.0 DOUBLE TAXATION RELIEF INCLUDING TAX TREATIES

Section overview

‘> For the avoidance of double taxation, Bangladesh 67615 into agreement with many countries.

> Double taxation agreement also prevents the fiscal evasion with respect to income taxes.

> Under double. taxation relief system, the payable tax will be the sum equal to the tax calculated on
such doubly taxed income at the average rate of tax of Bangladesh or the average rate of tax of the
foreign country; whichever is the: lower.

26.1 Double taxation —-some basic concepts

What is double taxation?

Double ‘taxation means: taxing the same income twice, once in the home. country and again in the host
country. For example, a Bangladeshi citizen may have income arose in India which is once taxed in India
and again in Bangladesh.

How does double taxation arise?

Double taxation may arise in the following two ways:

(i) The jurisdictional connections used by different countries may. overlap with each other. For example,
Mr. Rolex, a resident under the Bangladesh Income Tax Act, 2023 must. pay tax on his total world
income in USA also as citizen of USA (Residential jurisdiction).

(ii) The taxpayer or his income may have connections with more than one country. For example, Mr..
Rahamat, a Bangladeshi citizen, has income from Romania on investments and dividend income from

Page | 3:70

France in addition to income from Bangladesh. He has to pay tax on. his total world income ‘in
Bangladesh and also on income earned in Romania and France (Source jurisdiction).
What are:‘the broad objectives of Bangladesh DTAA?
The major-‘objectives of Bangladesh DTAA are as follows:
(i) To obtain a more effective relief from double taxation compared to relief allowed under unilateral
‘measures.
(ii). To create a favorable.climate for the inflow of FDI in Bangladesh..
(iii) To make special tax incentives provided by Bangladesh fully effective for the taxpayers of the capital
exporting countries.
(iv) To prevent tax evasion.
(v) To foster long term, mutually beneficial economic relationship ‘with others specially the developed
countries.
Which model of avoidance of double taxation agreement is followed in Bangladesh?
Thére ate two 10065 of avoidarice of double taxation agreemenit viz, UN Model and OECD Model.
Bangladesh generally follows UN model of avoidance of double taxation agreement which consists of the
following 29 articles:
Main Contents
Scope of the convention To whom applicable
~ wage Person, company, enterprise, international _ traffic
3. General definitions competent authority
Permanent establishment (PE) | What constitutes /does not constitute PE
| 6 Income from immovable property | Immovable property and income there from
7 Business profits Determination and taxation of profits arising fro
রর SINESS 0101 business carried-on through PE.
Shipping, inland =waterways| Place of deemed accrual of profits and mode of taxatio
‘transport and air transport thereon
; ; Enterprises under common management and taxation o
Associated enterprises profits.arising there from
Definitiori and taxation of dividends
| I. [interest’ =| Definition and taxation of interest
Royalties T.axation of royalties, country ‘where taxable
Capital gains: Taxation of capital gains, country where taxable
Independent personal services. | Types of services, country where taxable.
Dependent personal services Definition, country where taxable
Directors' fees and remuneration... a
16. for top level managerial officials Definition, country'where. taxable
> Income earned by entertainers. and Types of activities, mode and country where taxable
athletes
Pension and _ ‘social security.
Remuneration ‘and pensions. in . নাই লা .
respect of Government servants Type. of remuneration, country where taxable
Page | 371

Payment received by students and +... tion and related exemptions
apprentices :
Residual article to. cover incomes not covered unde
21. | Other income articles, mode of taxation and country-where taxable

Capital (tax on wealth) Mode of taxation, country where taxable.

24. Non<discrimination Equitable basis of taxing nationals and citizens of foreig
state

- Where taxation is not as per provisions of the convention

25. Mutual Agreement Procedure a person may present his case to competent authority'o
respective. states
Competent authorities to exchange information fo

26. Exchange of information carrying out the provisions of the convention
methodology for the same

Diplomatic agents and consulal 5 ivileges of this category to remain unaffected

, Effective: date from which the convention comes: intd
28. Entry into force force
Termination of treaty Time and notice period mode
Besides the above clauses, DTAAs normally contain a Protocol or Memorandum, which is like. a
supplement to the Treaty. This is attached normally at the: end of the treaty, which clarifies borderline
issues, and rectifies unintended omissions:
The other model, OECD model, is mostly followed amongst 29 OECD countries. The fundamental
difference between these two is essentially one; UN model is based on taxing the income on source
principle whereas OECD model is on resident principle. Since. 601 flows, from developed ‘to developing
countries, the latter tends to benefit.the developed countries.
What impact double taxation in general, would have on global economic activities?
(a) It hampers-free: flow of capital'and technology across borders and
(b) It becomes:a prohibitive:burden on concerned taxpayers leading to decline in foreign investments.
What are the effects. of DTAA in Bangladesh?
The effects. of an agreement entered by virtue of section 244 of Income Tax Act, 2023 would be:

1. If no tax liability is imposed under the Act, the question of resorting to DTAA would not arise. No
provision. of DTAA can possibly fasten a tax liability which is, not imposed by the Act. The treaties. with
all intent and purpose, can lessen the vigor of double. taxation cannot, however, enhance it.

2. In case:-of a difference in the provisions of the Act and those of the DTAA, ‘to the extent they are more
beneficial to the provisions. of the Act, will override the Act which is the fundamental concept in treaty.
Override.

What are the differences between double tax relief and double tax avoidance?

Double tax relief means granting of relief in respect of income on which income tax has been paid under
the Bangladesh tax laws and in other country.

Double taxation avoidance means avoidance of double taxation on income under the tax laws of the two
countries. One important distinction between the two is that.in the case of avoidance of double taxation,
the assessee does not have to pay the tax first to claim refund later; but he would be obliged to do so in
the case.of relief against double taxation.

Page | 372

The other distinction is that no beneéfit.is giver’ unless otherwise stipulated in the DTAA, but relief can be
awarded unilaterally against double: tax,even when there exists no DTAA. Section 244 of the Income Tax
Act, 2023 empowers the DCT to grant such relief, subject to such rules as the NBR may make in this:
behalf.

Firstly, as per.section 244 of Income Tax Act, 2023, where Bangladesh Govt. has entered any DTAA, the
provisions of that agreement would normally apply to the case-of an assessee. covered by such agreement.
However, if the relevant provisions in the Bangladesh Income: Tax Act are more favorable, then to that
extent he can. seek applications of the provisions:of the:Act.as against;those of the:agreement.

26.2 Agreement'to avoid double'taxation: section 244

This section confers the right to GOB to enter into-an agreement with the government.of:any other country
for the. avoidance of double taxation. and the prevention of*fiscal evasion with respect'to income tax and
may, by Gazette Notification, make such provisions as may be:necessary to implement the agreement.
Income tax policy section of NBR is entrusted to negotiating the Double Taxation Avoidance: Agreement
(DTAA) with foreign countries: to promote foreign direct irnivestment in Bangladesh. DTA is an agreement
between two countries seeking to avoid double taxation by defining the taxing rights of each -country
regarding cross border flows of income, providing for tax credits or exemptions to eliminate double
taxation.

At present, Government of Bangladesh has entered into Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA)
with 34 countries as stated below:

No Countries (assessment year
Po Nate | Commencing on orrafter)
6. | Pakistan | 2210488 | 11/07/1988 | 01/01/1980
6. | Srilanka | 365-188 | 10/12/1988 | 01/07/1989
9. | France | 2089 | 04/01/1989 | 01/07/1989
10. | Malaysia | 67490 | 15/02/1990 | 01011982
16. | Denmark |) 72497 | _17/031997 | 0107997
16. | Belgium | 98 | 1401998 | 0107/998
19. | Thailand |) 22298 | O7/09/1998 | 0004999
po. | Poland | 39099 | 03/03/1909 | 01/07/2000, _
pe. | USA | 71470402007 | 10/05/0007 | 010700067 — id
Page| 373

Comparative Rates in Double: Taxation Avoidance Agreement:
Sl. Name of the] Permanent: Maximum _tax| Maximum tax} Maximum _ tax
Royalties

6. | Pakistan | 183days | 15% | 15% | 15%
8. । Srilanka | 183days | 15% | 15% | 15% |
9. । France | 483days | 10%/15% =| 10% =| 10% |
20. | Poland | 183days | 10%/15% ~— | 10% =| 10% |
26, | USA | 183days | 10%/15% =| 10% =| 10% |
28. | Oman | Onlyairlines ||
29. | Myanmar | 6months | 10% =| 10% | 10% |
Page | 374

183 ‘days 10%/15%
183 days 10%/15%
183 days 10%/15%
38. Czech 6 months 10%/15% 10% 10%
Republic |
26.3 Relief In respect of income arising outside Bangladesh: section 246
This section empowers DCT to allow relief to an. assessee in respect of any income accrued or arisen in,
any other country with which Bangladesh does not have DIAA. The assessee must prove that he has
suffered tax on 07801700116 by way of deduction or‘otherwise, then the DCT may, subjéct'to:such rules as
the NBR may make in this behalf, deduct from the tax payable by the assessee: a sum equal to tax
calculated on such doubly taxed income at the average rate of tax of Bangladesh or the average rate of
tax atthe said country, whichever is lower. Average rate of tax means the rate arrived at by dividing the
amount of tax calculated on the total income by such income.
26.4. Comparative picture of Double Tax Avoidance and tax relief
Double tax avoidance and tax relief‘as presented in sections 244 and 246 respectively in ITA, 2023 have
conceptual difference which is presented in the table below:
| Heading
Refere of the Tax advantages
nce section
Section} Arises. Avoidance} Tax calculated as per rate.in the
244 of Double agreement, but'it will hot be more
from those countries with whom there | Taxation than the tax amount calculated on the
is DTAA. basis of the average tax rate
applicable in Bangladesh
(considering foreign. income in total
income) on the foreign income.
Section} Arises;from those countries; with whom] Relief Tax calculated on such. doubly taxed
246 there is no DTAA income at the.average rate of tax of
Bangladesh or the average rate of tax
of the said country, whichever is
lower subject’to such rules as the:
NBR may make in this behalf.
(illustration 1:
Mr. Nazim, a Bangladeshi resident, récéived interest income of Tk. 450,000‘from Indonesia after deduction
of 10% :of tax at source during the year ending on 30 June 2023. His other income in Bangladesh .amounts.
to Tk. 300,000 for the same year. Compute the net tax liability of Mr. Nazim.
Solution
- Mr. Nazim
Assessment year: '2023-24
Heads ofincome. Amount (Tk.)
income. from Bangladesh Sources 300,000
Foreign income (Tk. 450,000/1-0.1) 500,000
Total income 800;000
Computation of tax liability:
Tier of income Rate Amount (Tk.)
Page: | 375

On first Tk. 3,50,000 0%. Nil
On next 1,00,000 5% 5,000
On next 3,00,000 10% 30,000
On balance 50,000 15% 7,500
Tk. 800,000 42,500
Thus, the average. tax rate: in Bangladesh is 5.31% (Tk. 42,500 ./ Tk: 800,000 x 100). So, the maximum
limit of tax credit will be Tk..26,550 (Tk. 500,000 x 5.31%) though. he already paid Tk. 50,000 tax. in
Indonesia. Mr. Nazim will have to pay Tk. 23,450 (Tk. 50,000 - Tk. 26,550) as rémaining tax in
Bangladesh.
(llustration 2:
Mr. Khan Jahan records the income. for the income year 2022-23 as income from Bangladesh Tk.
2,000,000; income. from Sweden Tk. 600,000; income from Singapore Tk. 400,000; and income from
Russia. Tk. 1;000,000. The income tax rate for foreigners: iri Sweden is: 30%, but he has paid tax @ 25%
as per DTAA. 20% tax has been paid in Russia for the income generated in Russia and 25%.tax has been
paid in Singapore for the: income generated in Singapore. Show the application of double taxation relief
due to these foreign incomes for the assessment year 2023-24.
Solution 2:
Mr. Khan Jahan
Computation of total income
For the assessment year 2023-24
. Income from Bangladesh 2,000,000
P. Income: from Sweden 600,000
3. Income from Russia [No DTAA] 1,000,000
1. Income’ from Singapore. 400,000
Total income
Mr. Khan Jahan
Computation of tax payable in Bangladesh
| Particulars Rate TK
On first 3,50,000 0% -
On next 1,00,000 5% 5,000
On next 3,00,000 10% 30,000
On next 4,00,000 15% 60,000
On next 5,00,000: 20% 1,00,000
On balance. 23,50,;000 25% 5,87,500
Total Tax 7,82,500
Less: Double taxation relief (Note-5)
Net tax payable
Notes:
1. Average tax rate in Bangladesh = [(7,82,500/4,000,000) *100] = 19.56%
2. No tax.relief from income from Russia (as‘there.is no DTAA:and as NBR not Yet prescribed any rule.as
per section 246 in this behalf)
3. Tax relief from income from Sweden (DTAA exists) = (6,00,000 x25%) = Tk. 150,000. However,.
maximum limit is TK. 1,17;375 (6,00,000 *19:56%).
4. Tax relief from income. from Singapore (DTAA exists) = @ 25% or average tax rate i.e.19:56%
whichever is lower = (400,000 x19.56%) = Tk. 78,240
Page | 376

5. Total double taxation relief is = Tk. (1,17,375 + 78,240) = Tk. 1,95,615.
Illustration 3:
(a) Mrs. Roma Chowdhury; ৪ dual citizen (Bangladeshi by birth and Canadiari nationality through
immigration) is a differently abled (disabled) person, was working as a consultant in a reputed company
in Sri Lanka during 1st July 2016 to 31st October:2022. After spending consultancy:stint and vacation in
India, Mrs. Chowdhury returned to Bangladesh on 31st December 2022. Mr. Chowdhury started
consultancy and supply business in Bangladesh effective from 1st February 2023. For the purpose of
consultancy business; Mrs. Chowdhury frequently traveled abroad.
Accordingly, Mrs. Chowdhury has sought your advice.as to:how.she should file his tax return in compliance
with the prevailing tax.laws. In relation to this, Mrs. Chowdhury shared you the. following information:
Income from abroad:
Amount
(Taka)
Description
Ex-employer 17, Sri-Lanka remitted performance bonus: Accrued for the year 2021
760,000
Accrued for the year'2022 (December) 1,140,000
The amount was net-off tax @ 24%, credited’to her bank: account in Canada on 2,700,000
1st March’22 (Bangladesh and Sri Lanka have a double tax.avoidance treaty)
Consultancy fees remitted net-offtax @ 12% by an Indian Company-on 28'" February 202
for services provided in India in November-December'21 credited to her bank account i
Canada (Bangladesh and India have a. double tax:avoidance treaty)
Consultancy services provided in Bangladesh:
Amount
Description (Taka):
For consultancy services provided from 18 April 2022 to 30" June’22 fees earned from 4 3,000,000
public limited company on which, the company deducted tax'at sourcé @ 10% Under thé
Supply of computer hardware and accessories to Company Y on 15'" May 2022, amoun| 6,000,000
received during ‘same period on which Tk. 200,000 being 5% was already deducted ag
tax at import:stage under the tax law.
Act by customs authorities at import. point on. 1st March 2022 and Company Y mentioned
that they will deduct'tax @ 5% on the total supply value u/s 89 of the ITA, 2023
Note: This Supply business will be assessed 163 of the ITA, 2023
Expenses: made. by Mr. Chowdhury during 2022-23 income year
Amount
Description (Taka)
Expenses relevant.forsupply business including material, cost. 5,000,000.
Expenses relevant for'non-supply business 2,000,000
Bank interest for working capital for non-supply business 500,000
Bank interest for a home loan of Tk. 50 lacs 450,000
On account of purchase of Bangladesh savings certificate 3,000,000
Page: |377

Required:
Considering the withholding taxes provisions as per Income Tax.Act, 2023 compute:
(1) Total income for the income year 2022-23.
(2) Tax liability for the income year 2022-23
(b) Asia limited; Singapore has. opened a liaison office in Bangladesh. Initially, they have hired 3
employees and expect to hire more people in future. The eritity has finalized the. total benefits per
employee. The GM of the entity has heard that, proper structuring of salary components (e.g., basic, house
rent, etc.) in. Bangladesh ‘can bring in tax benefits to the employee. One. of the newly joined employees is.
asking for salary payment in cash. S/he said that, cash. payments. are. not subject to withholding tax in
Bangladesh.
The GM wants. to. be fair in'tax practice. He also wants to avail the maximum ‘tax benefits for himself and
the other employees. The entity does not have any 160 payroll. structure ratio. Below is the salary pay
structure plan. :
Pay structure
Asia Ltd. - Bangladesh Liaison Office
Name: Mr. Kei San
Position: General Manager
Gender: Male
Monthly salary: Tk. 500,000.
Joining date* 1s July.2021
Required . .
Calculate the most tax efficient salary structure ratio for Mr. Kei - San that will result in withholding tax per
month. The comparison is shown below:
[Particulars [| দমদলন]লম্দচহ | Ratio’
Basic Salary 50% 40% 40%
House rent.allowance 30% 30% 30%
Medical Expenses 10% 20% 10%
Coriveyance Allowance 10% 10% 20%
100% 100% 100%
(c)Mr..Z.an individual, working for'a large food company having compliant tax practices, has. come ‘to. you
to seek. your advice on the following:
For the Assessment Year 2023-24 Mr. Z received Taka 190,000 from the Workers’ Profit Participation
Fund established under Bangladesh Labor Act, 2006 after deduction of 5%. (8১০৪৪ per ITA.
17 connection with the above, while discussing about this withholding tax (which was not applicable earlier)
with one of his colleagues, he told ‘that although there is tax applicable on income from Workers’ Profit
Participation Fund but it is in fact exempted from income taxes as per the Bangladesh Labor Act, 2006 for
the workers. For the Assessment Year 2023-24, while assessed Mr. .2Z’s total income is ‘already ‘at. the
highest.slab of tax rate without this income from Workers’ Profit Participation Fund.
Mr..Z. is requiring following advice from you:
i) What would be his legal position based on the tax laws arid labor law? If he has to pay taxés:on iricome
from Workers’ Profit Participation Fund,
Page | 378

ii) Tax liability considering the withholding taxes and exemption if any as per the tax laws (ignore
investment allowances)
Solution-3(a)
Mr. Chowdhury
Income Year from :2022-23
Assessment Year: 2023-24
Computation of total income
Heads of Income Amount Amount
(Taka) (Taka)
Remittance by éx-employer jin Sri-Lanka তি 2 15,00,000
performance bonus
Total Income from Salary Ff 15,00,000
Income from Business: or profession: (section 28- ee ee

Consultancy fees remitted by Indian Company on 3 30,00,000:
28th February 2023 for services provided in India in
November-December 2022 ‘credited to his bank
account in Canada after deduction of tax @ 10% at
source
Consultancy fees earned in Bangladesh (tax at source 30,00;000
@ 12% of the'tax:law applicable)
Expenses relevant for non-supply business | | 20,00,000 Po
Bank interest for working capital for non-suppl 5,00,000 (25,00,000)
business
Total income on consultancy business না আআ ৷ 35,00,000
Supply business:(withholding tax is the minimu ee |
tax u/s: 163
Supply of computer hardware and accessories ta 60,00,000
Company Y executed on 15th May 2023
Expenses for supply business including material cost না আআ ৷ (50,00,000)
Total Income from Supply business Pf 10,00,000
Total Income [Requirement (i)] Pf 60,00,000
Page | 379

Calculation of Tax liability considering the rate applicable for Disabled person:
Amount
(Taka)
475000 | om [|
1,00,000 5,000
300,000 30,000
400,000 60,000
500,000 1,00,000
On supply (u/s 163) withholding tax being 10,00,000 minim um 4,20,000
higher (Note 4) tax
On local consultancy (u/s 163) withholding ‘5,00,000 minim um 3,60,000
tax. being higher tax
60.0000 [| 788,280
Rebate: (45, 00,000x3%) PoP (1,35,000)
Net tax liability after tax rébate. PoP 15,21 ,250
Less: Double taxation. relief (Foreign Tax
credit as per:sec 144(4
Withholding tax credit allowed on Salar (3,60,000)
income in Sri Lanka (Note-5
Withholding tax credit allowed on (3,00,000)
Consultancy income. in India: (Note-6
Less: Tax deducted at source in (6,60,000)
Bangladesh (Note-7
Net Tax liability [Requirement (i) | —=«| ~——SSsd| SSC
Calculation of Eligible amount for investment allowances under Income Tax Act, 2023:
Investment in Sanchaya Patra না 30,00,000
Total Actual Investment PT 30,00,000
3% of total income: - income u/s 163 135,000
(6,000,000-1 500,000):
Or 15% on actual investment না 4,50,000
Thus, eligible amount is lowe one Po 4,35,000
Note:1
Mr. Chowdhury arrived in Bangladesh on 31st December 2022; hence for the purpose of the AY 2023-24,
Mr Chowdhuty's status would be Resident because he stayed total [1+31+28+31+30+31+30] =182 days.
Additionally, Mr. Chowdhury. is also a disabled person as per definition of the ITA, 2023.
Note: 2
Page | 380

Mr Chowdhury is a resident tax payer in Bangladesh. Salary income of Taka 1,000,000 (grossed up:
760,000/ (1-76%)) accrued for the year 2021 should not be within the:scope of total income u/s 26 of the
ITA, 2023. Because, this income was generated beyond this tax period, when his status was non-resident
Salary. income of Taka 1,500,000 (grossed. up: 1,140,000/(1-76%)) accrued. or arises to him outside
Bangladesh for the income year 2021-2022 should be within the scope of total income u/s 26 of'the ITA,
2023. Because, this income was generated within the same tax period, when his status was resident:
Note-3
Consultancy income of Taka 3,000,000 (grossed up: 2,700,000/(1-90%)).acerued or arises'to him outside
Bangladesh for the income year 2021-22 should be Within the scope of total income u/s 26 of the ITA,
2023. Because, this income was generated within the same tax period, when his status was resident.
Whether the: money was received in Canada or not, it does not.matter, as Resident tax payer's income is
assessed on global income basis.
Note-4:
Tax liability for Supply business (u/s 163) Amount
(Taka
Profit as per normal calculation রত 1,000,000 রা
Tax:as per 25% slab, of PE 250,000
Total withholding tax, treated as minimumtaxuis164 | 420,000
Whichever is higher PoP 420,000
Thus, tax liability for Supply business u/s 163: Pf 420,000
Withholding ‘tax. credit allowed on. Salary’ income i
Sri Lanka
Gross salary earned Taxable in Bangladesh Pf 1,500,000
Withholding tax in Sri Lanka @ 24% Pf 360,000
Average tax rate in Bangladesh including foreig 25.83%
income (1,550,000/6,000,000)
Maximum credit allowed @ 24% as it is lower PE 360,000
Credit to be claimed (lower of maximum allowed vs. 360,000
actual)
withholding tax credit allowed on Consultanc
income in India
Gross consultancy fee earned Taxable ॥ 3,000,000
Bangladesh
Withholding tax in India @ 24% Pf 300,000
Page | 381

Average tax rate in Bangladesh including foreig 25.883%
income (1,550,000/6,000,000)
Maximum credit allowed @ 24% as it is lower PoP 300,000
Credit to be claimed (lower of maximum allowed vs| 300,000
actual)
Notre | 
On consultaricy services to be provided from 1% Apri 360,000
22 to. 30th June 22 (Taka 3,000,000 X 12%)
Tax paid at:import point u/s 120 P| 200,000 P ে ৷
Tax to be withheld u/s 89 (918 6,000,0005%) | 300,000; | |
Less: Tax paid at source u/s 120(as per'section 89)| 200,000 | 1,00,000
300,000
Total withholding tax in Bangladesh PoP 660,000
Solution-3 (b)
In every situation taxable income-and withholding tax are same because his yearly salary is Tk. 60,00,000.
Whereas non-taxable ceiling of house rent allowance is Tk:3,00,000, medical allowance: is only
Tk.1,20,000 and conveyance allowance is only Tk.30,000. So. altogether he will get yearly exemption of
Tk.4,50,000 which is highést and sane. in every situation and his ‘taxablé salary will be: 60,00,000-
4,50,000=55;50,000 in. all situation. Accordingly ‘withholding tax in every situation will also be the same.
Tax planning will not work.here due to high salary.
Page | 382

3(0)0) | The legal position on the taxability on income from Workers’ Profit Participation Fund

৮৪০০৫ on the tax laws: and labor law:

On the application of withholding taxes:

It is correct'that as per Bangladesh Labor Act, 2006 (“Labor Act”) it has been
mentioned that income from Workers’ Profit Participation Fund is exempted from
taxes for the workers.defined under'the said Labor Act.

However, while introducing this withholding tax provision:u/s 88 of tax law, taking
into account’such provisions in other laws, it is clearly mentioned that
notwithstanding anything containéd in any other provisions. of ITA or any'other laws
being in force in respect of exemption from tax on payments from Workers’ Profit
Participation Fund ....withholding taxes @10% shall be applicable. Hence, it is clea
that the Income Tax law has an overriding ‘authority. over the labor law in this
regard.

On the application of income taxes:

As per Income tax law, exemptions are considered only when there is expressed
provision as per Sixth Schedule Part 1 (Exclusions from total Income) or through a
SRO irrespective of any exemption given under-other laws.

This is because; section 3 of the Act.has given the Act an overriding authority.on
other laws. Hence, any income from Workers’ Profit Participation Fund shall be
taxable subject to exemption allowed as. per the Sixth Schedule Part 1 (Exclusions:
from total Income) orany SRO thereof. Currently the only'exemption allowed 15 up
to Taka 50,000 as of Sixth Schedule. of Income Tax Act, 2023.

3(c)(ii) | If he has to pay taxes on income from Workers’ Profit Participation Fund, net tax
liability of Mr..Z.on income from Workers’ Profit Participation Fund considering the
withholding taxes. and exemption if any:

Gross income from WPPF (190,000/(90%) 211,111

Exemption allowed [ref. Sixth Schedule Part 1] (50,000)

Net income taxable on income from WPPF 161,111 P|

Tax @ 25% (being in ‘the. highest slab) 40,278.

Tax.already deducted u/s 88 (21,111)

Net Tax liability 19,167 |
lillustration 4:
A. multinational Tobacco Company i.e., MTC Co. has been running their tobacco business in
Bangladesh for some time. The company is a ‘private limited company. Now it is contemplating ‘to
explore the possibility of introducing new product(s)/service line(s) of non-tobacco nature: along with
their existing tobacco business. Hence, the company has considered the following options and asked
forthe certain queries, under‘éach. option:

Page | 383

Option A: Integration of the new product/service. line within the existing business which will be
producing and marketing both tobacco and non-tobacco product/service lines.
Option B: Setting up a separate local subsidiary which will be owned by existing company i.e. MTC Co.
Option C: Setting up a legal entity which will be owned by the non-resident parent company of the
existing company in Bangladesh.
Besides, the company has outlined some specific queries Under each option which have been outlined
below: ,
Queries for Option A:
(i). Whether the income generated from non-tobacco business would be taxed.separately or the tax rate’
of current tobacco businéss would be imposed on non-tobacco business as well?
Queries for Option B:
(i) How would the cost of the management team be allocated to the subsidiary as most of the
management work of the subsidiary would be:done by the: Parent company management team.
(ii) What is the tax implication on the charge of management fees to the subsidiary. company?
(111) What.would be the tax implication of the subsidiary company considering the two scenarios:
1..Ifits legal status is a listed company
2.. If its legal status is a private limited company
(iv) How would the dividend income be treated in the financial statements of the Parent company and
what.would be the tax.implication therein:along with the net income of Ultimate parent company situated
in JAPAN, upon distribution of:dividend.
(v) Would the parent company and ‘subsidiary company both require to submit tax return? If so, would.
there be a requirement to submit tax return for the:consolidated profit:as welll.
The company has approached Mr. X, the partner of a one of the reputed CA firms 'foran expert opinion
with optimal tax structure:on the above-mentioned business options and queries pertained to‘them. You
are currently’ acting the role. of a senior manager in the firm since: long as a qualified Chartered
Accountant. And the partner of the firm has delegated the assignment to you.
Requirements:
Explanation of each option mentioned above. in the: light of Income Tax Act, 2023. This should also
include the following:
* Double tax treaty’ benefits. if any in case. of repatriation. of dividend to ultimate parent, situated in
JAPAN, of the tobacco Co. Assume: 100% foreign holding
" Financial analysis considering the new company to be considered as a subsidiary of MTC. as a
private: entity and as ৪ public:entity
* Financial analysis considering the new’company to be considered as a:subsidiary of MTC or of:non-
resident parent entity of MTC as a private-entity
Solution-4
Option-A
(i) Would the income.generated from non-tobacco business be taxed separately or would the tax
rate of current tobacco business be imposed on non-tobacco business as well?
Page | 384

As per my undérstanding, ০0600 business income being generated from Tobacco, is subject to
corporate tax @ 45% along with income surcharge @ 2.5% which in total comes to 47.5%. However,
as for the income to be generated from non-tobacco business, regular rate of tax will be applicable
which is 25%. being a publicly listed company, if you can evidently categorize your new product stream.
‘as non-tobacco..
Now question comes, as to whether authority will allow you to effectively use different rates for each of
your segregated business lines..
In my view, there is a perception risk of operating both the product lines under the umbrella of Tobacco
business, where the tax authority 78% impose the tax rate of 47.5% on the overall incomé generated
from each product stream, due to the principal business of tobacco company to manufacture and sale
of tobacco products. However, from my practical experience, | have examples, where-:an assessee who
generated income from more than one business, one business income was subject to tax at regular
rate @ 30% and:another business‘was subject to tax:at reduced rate.
An example has been furnished outlining the tax.impact based on what have.been discussed above:
, | With segmentation
With no Non-
০০৮ | 2000 7500 2,000
Less: Operating Expenses (400) (320) (80) (400)
Profit Before Tax ~ 4,600 4,280 | 320 | 1,600
Corporaté Tax (Tobacco 47.5%; Non-| (760) (608) (80) (688)
Tobacco 25% )
Profit After Tax 840 672 [240 | 912
Available forRaleigh (72.91%) ৮2 | | ০5
WHT thereon (10%”) (61) ee | ৩০)
Net Available for Raleigh 551 | | | 598 |
* Please see note on WHT on dividend under DTAA in Option B point 3
Option-B
(i) How would the cost of the management team be allocated to the. subsidiary as most of the
management work of the subsidiary will be done by the Parent company management team.
If the company intends to establish a separate legal subsidiary for the new business, as. per my
understanding, it is very unlikely that the. tax authority will accept the. allocation of management cost
incurred by the Parent company to the subsidiary, unless the company invoices the subsidiary. on an
agreed management fee: basis, which is applied consistently in terms of calculation mechanism. In such
case, the company needs to maintain documentation to support the cost;allocation.
7616, question comes as to whethér the company can be engaged in rendering such management
services. In my view it is possible provided that there is an object clause in MoA.
(ii). Tax & VAT implications on management fees:
TDS implication:
Page:|385

As per‘section 90 of the ITA, 2023, any company (in this case the new subsidiary company) responsible
for making any payment which constitutes as income of the payee shall deduct tax at source: at. the
‘applicable rate.

Hence, management fees will be subject to tax deduction at source (TDS) @ 10%. as per'section 90.
Corporate‘tax implication:

Such income. will be considered as other income for the Parent company. Hence, such income will be
subject to corporate tax @ 20% or 22.5% being a publicly traded company.

(iii) What'would be the ‘tax implication of the subsidiary company. depending on its listing status.
Tax.on Business income

Business income of the private limited company is subjéct to corporate tax @ 27.5%, and as.for publicly
listed company, the tax rate is 20%.. This is-to reiterate that, if the new line of business is considered as
non-tobacco business, in that case, regular rate of tax will be applicable.

(iv) How would the dividend income be treated in the financial statements of the Parent company

and what would be the tax implication therein.

Treatment of dividend income:

As per International Accounting Standard (IAS) 1, dividend income should be presented :as'non-operating
income in the financial statements of the Parent company (i.e. MTC).

Tax implication on dividend income of Foreign Parent Company:

As per section 117 of ITA, 2023, any company, at the tinie of paying dividend to.a shareholder, is réquired
to deduct'tax,on the amount of such dividend, at the rate applicable to a company. Please note that, the
law applies in case: of payment of dividend to both resident and nonresident:shareholder.

If the income of the new subsidiary is to be distributed as dividend income to the Parent company, then
with reference to section 117 as mentioned above, tax shall be. deducted @20% on the dividend income
distributed to MTC, which is the final tax forthe Parent company on dividend income as the rate of
tax on dividend income is also 20%.

However, if the parent company further distributes the dividend income to its foreign shareholder situated
in JAPAN, as per section 119 of ITA, 2023, such payment shall 09 subject to a‘further withholding tax @
20%. A.reduced rate of 10% in place of 20% may be applicable because there is DTAA with JAPAN. But
this is: subject to obtaining certificate from NBR as per section 119.

An example has been furnished below showing the various level of taxation and the ultimate net income
in the hand of ultimate Parent-company, situated in JAPAN.

With Non-Listed Subsidiary With Listed Subsidiary
Subsidiary) (parent | Consolidated] SUPSitary) [০9/910 | Consolidated
Company | Gompany)| Financials | Company | Financials
(80) (320) (400) (80) (320) (400)
Profit
Before Tax

Page | 386

Corp. Tax:
(Non-listed
subsidiary.
30%: Listed
22.5%:
Tobacco
Co. 47.5% (608 (704) (72 608 (680)
Divisible 672 896 672 920
Profit
before
Dividend
Income.
(Dividend (224) 224 - (248) 248 জে
to Parent)/ .
Dividend
from X
WHT (20% (45) (45) (50) (50)
on
Dividend
Income.
from .X
Divisible 870 870
Profit of
Parent
রা ee ee ee মার
Available 620 634
for Ultimate
parent
12.91%
PweHT(io%y | | ৩ । | | ৬)
Net. 571
Income. for
Ultimate
Parent
(v) Would the parent: company and subsidiary company both require to submit tax return? If so,
would.there be a requirement to, submit tax return for the consolidated profit as well.
With reference to section 73 of ITA, 2023 states that, every public or private company (as defined under
Companies. Act 1994) shall be required to furnish a copy. of audited financial statements. as certified by a
chartered accountant at the time of‘filing the réturn of income. In addition to that, as per section. 166 of
the ITA, 2023, submission of tax return must be accompanied by. audited financial statements.
According to the above laws, both the subsidiary company and the parent company’s financial statement
must be audited by a chartered accountant.
There is no provision in the ITA, 2023 for separate: audit of ‘thé consolidated financial statement and
separate tax return submission for the: consolidated financial statement.
lllustration 5:
A multinational company “Fantastic Limited” is owned by a China based company and by a Sarkar family
in Bangladesh. The China based company holds 45% shares :and Sarkar family holds 55%. (of which Mr.
Sarkar himself holds 35% and the rest are equally divided between his two sons) shares in Fantastic
Limited. The Sarkar family has decided to transfer their shares and-‘a German based company (GZR Inc.)
has:expressed their interest. to buy the’shares of Sarkar family in Fantastic limited. Please do note that the
China based company and the German based. company‘are. the concern of same holding company.
Page: |387

The acquirer:;company has. contemplated the following optioris as part of the consideration to be given to

the Sarkar Family against the purchase of the shares:

Option A:

* Dividend of USD 2,000,000 equivalent to BDT 170,000,000 will be distributed out of previous year's
retained earnings (estimated around 4 years’ earnings) to Sarkar Family and to the China based
company’on the basis of‘their proportion of shares the “Fantastic Limited”.

* The acquirer company will provide ‘USD 2,135,000 equivalent to BDT 181,475,000 to purchase. the
shares of Sarkar Family inthe “Fantastic Limited”.

Option B:

« No dividend will be distributed rather the acquirer company would ike to add the cash part of USD
1,020;000 equivalent to BDT 86,700,000 along with the original purchase price of USD 2,135,000
equivalent to BDT 181,475,000 which in total comes to USD 3,135,000 equivalent to BDT 268,175,000
for the purchase of:shares from Sarkar Family held in the “Fantastic: Limited”

Note: Total number of shares held in Fantastic Limited is 20,000. Face. value of the share is valued @ Tk.

250. per share. And the current fair value of the share is. valued @; Tk: 25,000 applying the market value

approach. Mr. Sarkar from the: Sarkar Faniily approached one ofthe Partnérs of your CA firm and you

have: been assigned to cater the: queries from tax'point of view.,

Requirements:

(i) ‘Tax ‘implication on dividend distribution assuming that there is no tax treaty between BD and China.

(ii) Capital Gain Tax implication. _ রে .

(iii) Analysis. of pros and cons of the. proposed option ‘from financial aspects on thé basis; of below
mentioned scenario.

(iv) Recommendations.

Please note that, your analysis and recommendation.should take into account the following tax implication

on the basis of assumptions. mentioned below under two scenarios:

Scenario-1

* Consider the yearly income of Mr. Sarkar of Tk. 25,000,000

* Consider the-dividend income:and capital gain earned from option A.

¢ Share disposal took place within 5 years from the date of acquisition..

Scenario-2

¢ Consider the yearly income of Mr. Sarkar of Tk. 25,000,000

* Consider:capital gain earned from option 8.

* Share disposal took place after 5 years from the: date of acquisition.
Solution-5
(i) Tax_implication on dividend distribution

Dividend Repatriation to China Based Company:

As per section 119 of the ITA, 2023, repatriation of dividend is subject to tax deduction at source @ 20%.

Since. there is double ‘taxation avoidance agreement (DTAA) between Bangladesh and China, dividend

repatriation to China Based Company will be subject to'tax @ 10%.

Page | 388

Dividend distribution to Sarkar Family:
As per section 117 of ITA,.2023 that, distribution-of dividend to Sarkar family will be subject to tax deduction
at:source @ 10%.
Please note that this‘source tax is not the final tax. However, this tax.can be adjusted with total tax liability.
Calculation of tax liability depends on the threshold level of income on the basis of slab rate which are as
follows:
jMae | Female | Taxrate |
First 360,000 First 400,000
Next 100,000 Next 100,000
Next 300,000 Next 300,000
Next 400,000 Next 400,000
Next 500,000 Next 500,000
Rest of the income Rest ofthe income
(ii) Capital Gain tax implication
As per section 57 of ITA, 2023, tax shall be payable by an assessee under the head “Capital gains” in
respect of any profits and gains arising from the transfer of a capital asset and such profits and gains shall
be deemed to be the income ofthe income year in which the transfer took place.
As 09771 Schedule-of the ITA, 2023, tax payable on capital gain will be depending upon the tax:slab rate
applicable for the individual on his total income: if the disposal of shares takes place: within 5 yéars ‘from
the date: of acquisition.
However; if the disposal of shares takes place after-five years from the date of acquisition, in that case,
tax payable on the capital gain will be calculated depending upon the tax slab rate applicable: for the
individual on his total income or tax @ 15% on the capital gain which is the lower.
(iii). Analysis of pros and cons of the proposed option from financial aspects
* Dividend entitlement of Sarkar family will be compensated as purchase consideration on the:disposal
of shares.
* Capital route is tax effective:as compared to dividend route if:
1. The individual holds the share more than five years and if
2. The individual is now:at higher‘tax bracket
Now let us analyze the two routes from tax exposure point of view:
Scenario-1.
Yéarly usual income of Mr. Sarkar is Tk. 25:000,000. He.is expected to earn. capital gain of Tk: 61,766,250
from the disposal of-shares held in Fantastic: Ltd and dividend income of Tk. 59,500,000. This is to: note
that the share disposal took place within 5 years from the date ‘of acquisition. Hence, total income comes
to Tk. 146,266,250. Now let us calculate the tax payable.
Page | 389

Male.(Amount in Tk.) Tax payable
Remaining 14, 46,16,250 3,61,54,063
That means, capital gain is taxable @, 25% as-share. disposal ‘took place within 5 years.
Scenario-2
Yearly usual income of Mr. Sarkar is Tk. 25:000,000. 0915 expected to earn. capital gain of Tk. 92,111,250
from the disposal of shares held in ABC:Co. This is to ‘note that the share disposal took place-after 5 years
from the date of acquisition. Hence; total income:.comes to: Tk. 117,111,250. Now let us calculate’ the tax
payable.
Male (Amount in Tk.) Tax Tax
rate| payable
First 350,000
Remaining 24,950,000
Remaining 15%| 13,816,688
92,111,250
Capital Gain
In this casé, tax payable on capital gain will bé lower of (i) and (ii):
(i) Tax payable on capital gain based on, 25% tax rate is Tk. 23,027,813 (92,111,250 * 25%).
(it) Tax payable on capital gain based on 15% tax rate is Tk. 13,816,688 (92,111,250 * 15%)
(iv) Recommendations:
Upon. considering the above-mentioned pros and cons of the two options, option B seems lucrative from
tax savings point of view but from income perspective option-A seems more feasible as compared to
option B.
lilustration 6:
Since 2016, “ABC Co:” a branch ofa Spanish Company situated in India has been’working with XYZ Co.
in India as a Joint’Venturé (JV) forthe Bangladeshi Government providing consultancy services for the
design and construction supervision of the Construction of the Dual Gauge Railway Track between Dhaka
— Tongi and Tongi- Joydebpur sections..
Page | 390

ABC Co. performed the design services from India but now’ there is an important part of the works
(Construction supervision) to be carried out in Bangladesh (with Indian and Bangladeshi staff). Until now,
the project has been carried out through an Indian Joint Venture (the Government:received a financing for
the Project and one of the requirements from the Bank was to be registered in India) formed by XYZ Co.
and ABC Co.
Below are the salient points of the’ project:
* The Project Was awarded to.an Indian Consortium (not company) formed by ABC Co. (50%) and XYZ
Co. (50%).
* Thé project is divided into 3 stagés: Stage 1 — Detailed Design, Stage 2 - Construction Supervision,
Stage 3 — Development Phase
* Stage 1 is already completed
* Duration of stage 2 is 3 years (tentatively). It was started in July 2021.
* Duration of stage 3 is 6 months (tentatively).
¢ XYZ Co.has developed its part of the work since the:beginning of the Project
* For the:performance of stages .2 and 3, ABC Go. and XYZ Co. have established a JV ‘in India.
* The. price is going to:be paid in USD & BDT.
* 5 Indian engineers to be located in Dhaka (3 from ABC Co.,and.2 from XYZ. Co.)
* One.or some local subcontract/s
* ‘The project is financed by a bank situated in India. Invoices are issued to the Client (Bangladesh
Railways) but payment is done.in India by the Indian Bank, including the BDT component'that the bank
converts into USD at.a fixed rate (100 BDT/US) for payment.
Now the JV is considering to-set up either'a branch or-a company in Bangladesh to carry out the phase 2
and 3-of*the project.
Requirements:
(i) Whether the establishment-of a branch office will trigger PE from local tax point of view and from the
perspective of Double: Tax Treaty agreement?
(ji) Whether PE risk if any can be:averted if JV hires own employees instead of opening a branch office or
_ acompany'i.e., JV? ; . : ; —
(iti) Should the income genérated through PE be subject to tax in Bangladesh and if so, then how it.should
be taxed in the light of ITA, 1984? .
(iv) Advising any other way out to avoid PE risk, if any?
Solution-6
(i) Whether the establishment of a branch office will trigger PE from local tax point of view and
from the perspective of Double Tax Treaty agreement?
From local tax:point of view:
As per new section .2(92) of the ITA, 2023, permanent establishment, in relation to income from business
or profession, means a place or activity through which the.bUsiness or profession of:a person is: wholly or:
partly carried.on, and includes-.
(a) a place of management;
(b) a branch;
(c) an agency;
(d) an office;
(e) a warehouse;
(f) a factory;
(g) a workshop;
Page| 391

(h) a mine, oil or gas‘well, quarry or‘any other place of exploration, exploitation or extraction of natural
resources;

(i) a farm or plantation;

(j) a building site, a. construction, assembly‘or installation project.or'supervisory activities in connection
therewith:

(k) the furnishing of services, including consultancy:services, by a person through employees or other
personnel engaged by the person for such purpose, if'activities of that nature-continue (for the same
or a connected project) in Bangladesh; ৪70. রা চু না রা

() any associated entity or person (hereinafter referred to as “Person A”) that is commercially
dependent on a non-resident person where the associated entity or Person A carries out any activity
in Bangladesh in connection with any: sale made. in Bangladesh by the non-resident person;”

From DTAA perspective:
Article. 5 of'the DTAA between India and Bangladesh defined the meaning of "permanent establishment"
which are as follows:
(a) a place of management;
(b) a. branch;
(c) an office;
(d) a factory;
(9) 3.%015101; রা .
(f) a‘warehouse, in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others and
(g) a, mine, an oil or gas oil, a quarry or other place of extraction of natural resources;
(7) a buildingsite or-construction or installation project constitutes a permanent establishment only
if it lasts. more:than 183 days
Hence, establishment of a branch office: will trigger PE from both local tax point of view and from the
perspective of Double. Tax Treaty:agreement.
(ii) Whether PE risk if any can be averted if JV hires own employees instead of opening a branch
, office from local tax-and DTAA perspective?
As discussed above, as per serial no. (k) of section 2(92) of the ITA, 2023, furnishing of services, including
consultancy:services, by:a person through employees of other personnel engaged bythe person for such
purpose, if activities of that nature continue (for the same: or a connected project) in Bangladesh ‘shall
constitute PE in Bangladesh. Hence, PE risk ‘cannot be averted if JV hires own employees instead of
Opening a branch office.
In addition to that, from the perspective of DTAA, stay period of more than 183 days shall constitute PE.
Since, the project will run for more than three (3) years, hence, PE risk cannot be averted from DTAA
‘perspective even.
(iii) Should ‘the income generated through PE be subject to tax in Bangladesh and if so, then how it
, should be taxed in the light of ITA, 20239
As per section of 27 of the ITA, 2023,.any income.accruing or arising, whether directly orindirectly, through
or from any permanent establishment in Bangladesh shall be taxable in Bangladesh.
(iv) Advising any other way out to.avoid PE risk, if any?
As per para 5 of the DTAA,-an enterprise of a Contracting State.shall not be deemed to have a permanent
establishment in the other Contracting State merely because it carries on business in that other State
through a broker, general commission. agent or any other agent of an independent status, where such
persons are acting in the ordinary course of their business..
Page | 392

This means that, if the JV outsource the full function to an independent third party to carry out the-onsite
services, in that case, JV will not be exposed to PE in Bangladesh from DTAA pérspective.
Illustration 7:
A Sweden based company'i.e., CNPC Co. has sold electrical power generators to.a Bangladeshi Company
i.e., PQR Co. The seller'needs to deliver the services for the electrical power generators supplied to PQR
Co. The Sweden based Co. has a subsidiary in Bangladesh called MNC Limited which can. provide. the
service to PQR' Co. on behalf of CNPC Co. Alternatively, CNPC Go. can also appoint an independent
subcontractor to deliver those. service to PQR Co.
To rendér ‘the services to PQR Co., efiginéers of both CNPC Co. and independent subcontractors are
necessary regardless of the transaction structure CNPC Co. chooses.
The entity. has considered the:following options to carry out'the onshore services in Bangladesh:
- Option-1: The contract will be signed between CNPG and MNC. As'per the:contract, MNC will deliver
the onshore services to PQR.
- Option-2: There will be a contract between MNC and PQR only to render services to PQR.
- Option-3: There will be a:contract between CNPC and PQR. PQR will bring the employees of CNPC
employees under their banner
- Option-4: There will be a contract between CNPC and PQR. CNPC sub contracts: to’ Independent
3rd party (3P) to deliver the services to PQR Co.
Requirements:
(i) Withholding tax’ and. corporate tax implication, transfer pricing implications and DTAA implication (if
any) for:each of the option.. :
(ii) Recommendations for the management 'of'the company.
Solution-7
(|) Withholding tax and Corporate tax implication and DTAA implication (if any) for each of the
‘option.
Option-1 (Agreement between CNPC and MNC):
Withholding Tax
The banker of MNG, atthe time of crediting service amount from CNPC, shall deduct withholding tax @
10% as per.section 124 of the ITA, 2023.from the proceeds.
Corporate Income Tax
From MNC Perspective:
Service value will be considered as income from business for MNC and will be taxed at:standard corporate
tax rate of 27.5% or 30% on income from business i.e., after deducting allowable business expenditure
from the service value. However, minimum corporate income tax of MNC will be.0.6%-on gross receipts.
MNC can adjust the. withholding tax deducted by Bank with its corporate tax, payable at year end provided
corporate tax liability of MNC is higher than the amount of withholding tax deducted. Ifthe TDS is higher
Page |393

than corporate tax liability, in that case, the excess amount cannot be claimed as refund as because tax
suffered at'sourcé: u/s 124 is.considéred to be: minimum tax u/s 163-of'the ITA, 2023.

From CNPC Perspective:

As per section 2(92) of the ITA, 2023, 1687 associated entity or person is commercially dependent on a
non-resident person to carry out the services in a-connected project, in that case, such activities ‘shall
constitute PE in Bangladesh.

Here, since MNC.is commercially dependent on CNPC a non-resident.entity, in that case, CNPC is likely
to be exposed to Bangladesh tax through the creation of PE with reference to section 18 of the ITA, 2023.
lf CNPC-is‘exposed to Bangladesh tax, in that case, question will come how the income-will be determined.
In:such case; the DCT can determine the income with reference to Rule 34 of the ITR, 1984.

Transfer Pricing

MNC will be-exposed to the transfer pricing regulation if it enters into contract with CNPC to deliver service
to PQR as it is an intercompany cross border jurisdictional transaction. MNC will be requiréd to submit
transfer pricing return (TP. return) called “Statement of International Transaction” along with the corporate
tax return. In TP return, MNC will be required to declare the amount of international ‘transactions and
respective transfer pricing methods. MNC will also be required to keep detailed documentation related to
transfer pricing. If the total amount of international transactions during an income year exceeds BDT Thirty
(30) million (approximately Euro 300K) then tax authority may ask MNC to provide a.report from Chartered
Accountants or'a Cost and Management.Accountants on its Transfer Pricing Compliance.

Option-2 (Agreement between MNC and PQR):

Withholding Tax.

Construction Work is done through the Contract and.as:such would require tax:‘deduction at.source. under
section 89 of ITA, 2023 and related rule when payment is made to. MNC by PQR. The current withholding
tax rate is for such type of payment of amounting contract value. of service is @.7% which is much lower
than option 7.

Corporate Income.Tax

Service value will be.considered as income.from business for MNC and will be taxed at standard corporate
tax rate of 27.5% or 30% on income from business i.e., after deducting allowable business expenditure
from the sérvice value..

MNC can adjust the withholding tax deduction at'source with its corporate tax payable at-year end provided
corporate tax liability of MNC is higher than the amount of withholding tax deducted. If the TDS is higher
than corporate tax liability, in that: case, the excess amount cannot be claimed as refund ‘as because tax
suffered at source u/s 89 is considered to be.minimum tax u/s 163-of the ITA, 2023.

From:CNPC Perspective:

There will be no.tax implication under option-4 from CNPC perspective

Transfer Pricing

MNC will not be exposed to transfer pricing regulation.

Option-3 (Agreement between CNPC and PQR):

Withholding Tax
Page | 394

‘Quéstion:cormes whether the sérvice will be considered as technical know-how fee or technical assistance

69. If this is. so considered and PQR signs an agreement with the Government to establish an electricity

power plant run by other than coal subject'to fulfillment of the conditions of “Private Power Generation

Policy of Bangladesh” then usually ‘no tax is payable-on technical know-how fee or technical assistance

fee.

If this is not.so considered, PQR might be required to deduct tax on the amount payable to CNPC.

Corporate Income Tax

Generally, there will not be any Corporate Income:tax for CNPC.or MNC in Bangladesh on the transaction.

But, Permanent Establishment of CNPC in Bangladesh may be created if CNPC renders the service

through the secondment of employees as per section 2(44A) of the ITA, 1984 and if their stay in

Bangladesh in aggregate exceeds 183 days in any 12-month period commencing or'ending in the fiscal

year:concerned.

Hence, position of CNPC is likely to be exposed.

And as per amended section of 27 of the ITA, 2023, any income accruing or arising, whether directly ‘or

indirectly, through or from any permanent establishment in Bangladesh shall be taxable in Bangladesh.

Option-4 (Agreement between CNPC and Third party):

There will be no tax implication under option-4 from CNPC perspective.

Implication of DTAA:

As per article. 5 of the DTAA between Bangladesh and Sweden, meaning of PE is:as follows:

a. a place of management;

b. a, branch:

c. an. office;

d. a'factory;

ey a workshop; রা

£ a‘warehouse, in relation to a person providing storage facilities for others and

g. a mine, an oil or gas oil; a quarry. or other place of extraction of natural resources;

h, a building site or construction or installation project constitutes a permanent'establishment:only

if it lasts more-than' 183 days

As pér Article.6 of the: said agreement, an enterprise of.a Contractitig State shall not be déémed to have

a permanent establishment. in the other Contracting State merely because it carries on business in that

other State through'a broker, general commission agent or any other agent: of an independent status,

where: such persons: are acting in the ordinary course. of their businéss: and their business and their

activities do not fall within the meaning of'sub-paragraph (c) of ‘paragraph 5.

Contradiction between DTAA and ITA, 2023:

Definition of PE incorporated in the Income Tax Act, 2023:and definition of PE in respective DIAA.seems

to be contradictory in couple.of-aspects. For example, the following two. items are-included inthe definition

of DTAA.as provided in the ITA, 2023 which are not included in the DTAA:

- the furnishing of services, including consultancy services, 8% ৪ person through employees or other

personnel engaged by the person for such purpose, if activities of that nature, continue (for'the same ora

cofinected project) in Bangladesh; and any associated entity or person (hereinafter referred to as

“Person A”) that.is commercially dependent on a non-resident person where:the. associated entity or
Page | 395

Person A carries out:any activity. in Bangladesh in connection with any.sale made in Bangladesh by the
‘non-resident person.

Furthermore, ifwe look at the definition: of PE given in the DTAA jn relation to a building site, construction,
assembly or installation projects, PE will be constituted if number of days lasts more than 183 days
whereas.in the Income Tax Act, 2023:there isno such 9৪১5 17761700160. Hence it is implied'that even single
day presence’ might create PE in Bangladesh to meet the purpose as mentioned above as per the
definition given in the Income: Tax Act, 2023.

Again, if we look at the relevant Article of the: DTAA in relation to the Engagement of Independent third
party it will not create a PE in Bangladesh: whereas:as per the definition given in the Income Tax Act, 2023,
Engagement of Independent third party will create: PE as éxplained above.

Now the question comes which-will prevail in any contradictory'scenario between DTAA and Income Tax
Act, 2023 from local law. perspective.

Section, 244 of the ITA, 2023 states that, agreement signed between the two contracting states and the
provision'shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in-any other law. This:implies that provisions
ofthe DTAA shall prevail of the Income Tax Act, 2023 if such matter is, expressly coveréd in the DTAA.
However, the real. challenge are those cases which are not expressly covered in the DTAA and
interpretation is required thereon. In such case, the. tax authority normally disallow DTAA benefit and
impose tax as per the ITA, 2023.

(ii) Recommendations:

Upon considering the above-mentioned scenario, CNPC in all the way'will be exposed for Bangladesh tax
except option-4. Hence-the only way forward is that CNPC.can no way be.involved in ‘rendering installation
and maintenance work rather to engage:the third party ‘to render the activities.

Illustration 8:

Thé Owners of a project undertaken by.a world-renowned hotel company in Bangladesh wants: to remit
Royalty fees'and P&S charges (“Reimbursable”) 0 the:company “XYZ” based in Hong Kong. The:payment
will be made to the company based in Singapore.

Permission is. required ‘from Bangladesh Investment Development Authority (BIDA) or Bangladesh. Bank
in order to remit money abroad. The client informed that.approval from BIDA and BB are granted on the
basis that withholding 'tax has to be deducted on Royalty fees and reimbursable by the authorized bankers
to the company in accordance with domestic tax law.

Payment of such reimbursable cost with deduction of tax from Bangladesh will become cost to the
company. And hence, the company'wants to gross up the reimbursable charges inclusive of WHT as such
treatment is not prohibited in Bangladesh. Besides, this treatment is followed by other hotels and
industries.

In this regard, the hotel company XYZ is-conterplating the following options. and seeks expert opinion in
the light of Bangladesh tax law and regulations:

Option 1: Grossing up P & ও charges (reimbursable) inclusive of WHT.

Option 2: Setting up a local entity to receive the P & S charges (reimbursable) in Bangladesh ‘and
‘subsequent repatriation of the payment to XYZ as dividend.

Option 3: Setting up a local entity to receive both Royalty fees and P & S charges (reimbursable) in
Bangladesh and subsequent repatriation of the payment to XYZ as dividend.
Page | 396

Requirement:
(i) Withholding tax and Corporate tax implication and DTAA implication if any of each option. And the
answer should include the financial analysis if any along with recommendations.
Solution-8
(i) Withholding tax and Corporate tax implication and DTAA implication if: any:of each option. And
the answer should include the financial analysis if any.
Option-1 (Grossing up P & S charges (reimbursable) inclusive of WHT)
WHT implication:
AS per’séction 119 of the ITA, ‘2023, any payment made 6% ৪ resident in Bangladesh to a nonresident will
be subject to withholding tax in Bangladesh at the applicable rate.
Hence, the payment of P & S charges to the hotel company based in Singapore will be subject to tax
deduction at.source (TDS) @ 20%.
An example has been furnished below:
If XYZ grosses up the fee of Tk. 100 on the basis of applicable tax rate, in that.case, invoice amount will
stand at Tk. 125 (100/.80) and the company. will receive net amount of Tk. 100 after: deduction of tax of
Tk. 25(125*20/100).
If the’ fee is grossed up and tax and, VAT is deducted at:source at the: applicable tax rate, in. that'case, the
assessing officer is unlikely to. raise question:as to the extent.of'such expenses.
DTAA implication:
Currently'there.is no DTAA agreement between 88191966597 and Hong Korig, hence DTAA benefit caririot
be availed on the payment of P & ও charges (reimbursable).
Option 2: Setting up a local entity'to receive P & ও charges in Bangladesh WHT implication:
As per section 90 of the ITA, 2023, payment, made to a resident by a specified person ‘on account of
‘services mentioned therein will be subject to tax deduction at source at the applicable rate(s).
Payment of reimbursement expenses is not subject to tax deduction at. source if the reimbursement is
related to professional fees. But in other cases, law is. silent which implies that reimbursement.is subject
to tax deduction at-source except on professional fees. Hence, payment made to the local entity of Marriott
by the owners on account-of P & ও charges will be subject to TDS @ 10%. Please note that tax suffered
at:source by the local entity of XYZ is tax creditable against its corporate tax liability.
Corporate tax implication:
Income: of the local entity of the XYZ. will be subject to corporate tax @ 27.5% or 30%. As mentioned
above, tax suffered at. source can be tax creditable with the corporate tax liability.
Local entity of XYZ can repatriate the remaining income (after payment of corporate tax) to XYZ in the
form. of dividend. Please note that with reference to section 119 of the ITA; 2023, dividend payment will
be subject to TDS @20%.

Page |'397

An example has been furnished below:
Corporate tax @ 30% (.assuming that conditions ‘to: avail 27.5% tax rate not} 30
fulfilled
Net tax payable
Profit after tax (PAT) নে ৷৷
Withholding tax on dividend @ 20%
Net remittance as Dividend
DTAA implication:
Please note thatas per.section 119 of the: ITA, 2023, there is-a provision to apply to NBR to obtain reduced
rate certificate or non-deduction certificate in the light of tax treaty. We note that the payment is to be
rémitted to Hong Kong. There is currently no Double: Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA) between
Bangladesh and Hong Kong. Hence, no DTAA benefit. can be availed on the payment of Dividend.
Option 3: Setting up a local entity to receive both Royalty fees.and P &-S charges
(reimbursable) in Bangladesh
WHT implication:
Under Option 3, if the local entity of XYZ receives payment of royalty fees in addition to P&S charges,
payment of royalty fee’ will be subject to tax deduction at source @ 10% U/s 90 of the ITA, 1984. P&S:
charge:alréady discussed in 00017 2.
Corporate tax implication:
As we have: discussed in Option 2, income of the local entity of XYZ will be: subject to corporate tax @
30%. And tax suffered ‘at source’ can be tax creditable against the corporate tax. liability. Local entity of
XYZ can repatriate the remaining income (after payment of corporate tax) to XYZ in the form of dividend.
Please rote that with referencé to section 90 of the ITA, 2023, dividend payment will be. subjéct to TDS
@20% as per section 90.
DTAA implication:
Please note that as per‘section 90 of the ITA, 2023, there is a provision to apply to NBR to obtain reduced
rate certificate. or non-deduction certificate in the light of tax treaty. We note that the payment is to be
remitted to Hong Kong. There is currently no Double Taxation Avoidance Agreement (DTAA) between
Bangladesh and Hong Kong. Hence, no DTAA benefit can be availed on the payment of Dividend.
An example has been furnished below:
Corporate tax @ 30% eee
Page | 398

Withholding tax on dividend @ 20%
Net remittance as Dividend 112 |
Summary of the options discussed:
Particulars Net reimbursable Net Royalty feeq Total net
receivable (TK): receivable (TK) Payment:(TK)
Option 3 08
Upon considering the aforementioned facts, it is recommended to opt for option 1.
26.5:Methods of avoiding double taxation
There are four methods.of avoiding double taxation. These are —
(i) Unilateral relief
(ii) Bilateral relief
(iii) Multilateral relief
(iv) Non-tax treaties
Unilateral relief
Under this system whether the income is. subject to tax abroad or not is immaterial, relief is given by way
of tax credit for the tax paid. abroad.
Under Section 246 of the Income Tax Act, 2023, tax credit method is followed: A resident in Bangladesh
who. has: paid income tax in any country with which Bangladesh does: not have. a treaty for the relief or
avoidance of double taxation is allowed ‘credit against his Bangladesh income tax for an amount equal to
Bangladesh coverage rate i.e. average rate or the foreign rate’ whichever is lower, applied to the doubly
taxed income.. This is done as follows:
(a)Where the foreign tax is:equal to Bangladesh tax, full amount-of foreign tax will be given credit.
(b)Where the foreign tax exceeds the Bangladesh tax; the liability to Bangladesh tax is nil. However, no
_ tefund in respect of the excess amount is:allowed.
(c)Where foreign tax is less than Bangladesh tax, the difference would be payable by the taxpayer.
The basic principle to remember is ‘that credit/relief will never exceed the Bangladesh income tax on the
concerned income:calculated at average rate.
Bilateral relief
It may take one of'the following two forms:
Firstly, the treaty may apply exempting, method, the country in question refraining from exercising
jurisdiction to tax:a particular income.
For instance, the country of source where PE is located is assigned an exclusive jurisdiction to tax the
profits: of the establishment. In turn it may agree to refrain from 6xercising its jurisdiction to tax the owner
of these profits.
Page | 399

Alternatively, the treaty may provide relief from double taxation by redacting the tax ordinarily due in one
or both of the contracting statés on that income which is subject to double taxation.

For instance, the country, which is the source of a-dividend, often agrees to reduce the. withholding rate
normally applicable to dividends paid to non-resident:and the country of residence. agrees to give tax credit
or-similar relief for the tax paid in the.source country. In such a-case, both the countries exercise the rights
to jurisdiction, while mutually agreeing for adjustments, many DTAAs combine both the methods of relief.
Multilateral treaties

These are similar to bilateral treaties achieved through agreement between many countries i.e. EEC.
Non-tax treaties

These are. not direct tax treaties but are. of friendship, co-operation cultural exchange, political and
diplomatic relations, but which conseqifently may’reflect upon ‘tax matters

26.6 ‘Tax treaty

What is tax treaty and how does it work?

‘Treaty’ as commonly understood is a formally concluded and ratified agreement between independent
nations. Tax‘treaties are generally a matter of bargain and prolonged negotiations centering on economic
interests of the countries involved. . .

What is the scope of tax treaties in determining jurisdiction?

Normally tax treaty between two countries, covers-

(i) Persons (ii) Taxes (iii) TerrITAry (iv) Time.

The treaty, generally applies to residents of the contracting states. Each country retains the power to tax:
its citizens and residents on their total world income.(Status jurisdiction) and tax.others, non-citizens, non-
residents only on their income in the country (Source jurisdiction). However, the treaty provisions protect
the taxpayer from ‘suffering double taxation on the same income.

How 0065 a treaty become a law?

The agreement entered into becomes a part of domestic law only when it has-sanction of the constitutions
ofthe nations; which are. parties‘to it. The power to legislate is conferred on our Parliament and therefore,
the Government has authority to enter into DTAA. However, all treaties are also required to be formally
approved by official gazette notification.

26.7 Some other concepts used in DTAA

Treaty override

The executive of the state has been given rights: under our Constitution to enter into DTAAs., This is an,
executive power exercisable by the Govt. like legislative and judicial powers..As the power to enter into
DTAAs comes.from‘the:Constitution, the relevant article thereof will have the effect of the DTAA overriding
the Act, as the executive also has to exercise jurisdiction keeping in mind DTAA obligations and
commitments made thereon. It is now an undisputed proposition that DTAA overrides the Act.

For this very reason, Section 144(2) has referred to the wording “notwithstanding anything contained. in
any other law for the time: being in force” to give effect of DTAA provision over domestic law, instead of
saying “notwithstanding anything contained in anyother provisions of this.Act’.
Page | 400

Treaty shopping
Just as the domestic law can, sometimes, be. used more. than fairly to the advantage. of a taxpayer, the
DTAA.too can be exploited through popularly known means of “Treaty Shopping”. A non-resident seeking
shelter'under a DTAA is still open to domestic assessment'when the tax authorities feel that, he is taking
an undue advantage of provisions of the DTAA.or has structured the commercial arrangement in sucha
way so as to avail the DTAA benefit otherwise not available to him. The authorities may then deny’ the
benefits of the DTAA. The most common form of Treaty Shopping is setting up of a dummy enterprise.
This is set up by say, Company A, in one of the Contracting States, to avail DTAA benefits; which the
company, not being a.resident of either Contracting States, would. otherwise. not be. entitled to. In such a
‘case, the Court can lift the corporate veil.
Attribution Rule
The basic requirement to bring the: business profits to tax they should be capable of being attributable to
the Permanent Establishment (PE) orresidency. The question 0 be asked is the enterprise trading ‘with
the country on. a regular basis? If yes, what is ‘the. Nature of establishment in Bangladesh? If the income
‘arises out ofthe business activity carried on in that state and if it can be attributed to the PE, it can be
taxed to that extent:of-attribution.
Certain established and accepted rules are to be followed in'thé-determination of such income. Generally,
the expenses that can or cannot be considered will depend upon the taxation laws of each state.
Force of attraction rule
lt means all income arising from all source ina country. where the foreign enterprise maintains a PE is
subject to tax. in that country irrespective of whether the said income. is attributable to the PE or not.
Theréfore, profits arising from trahsactions:outside PE are:also taxable. As per this rule.not.ohly'the profits
attributable to the sale:‘of same or similar kind of goods:is brought to tax and any other income.from sources
within the country are also regarded income attributable to'the PE.
Exchange of Information amongst Two Countries
(1)The competent authorities of the Contracting States shall exchange such information as:is necessary
for the carrying out of this Convention and.of the domestic.laws of the Contracting States:concerning taxes
covered by this Convention in so far.as the taxation thereunder is in accordance-with this Convention. Any
information so exchanged shall be treated as secret and shall not be disclosed to any persons or
authorities other than those concerned with the-assessment or collection of the taxes which are the subject
of the Convention.
(2)In no casé shall the provisions: of paragraph (1) of this Article be ‘construed so as to impose on one. of
the Contracting States the obligation:
(a)To carry. out administrative measures at variance with the laws or the administrative practice of that or
of the other: Contracting State..
(b)To supply particulars which are not obtainable under the laws or in the normal course. of the
administration of that or of the other Contracting State;
(c)To supply information which would disclose any trade, business, industrial, commercial or professional
‘secret or trade process, or information, the disclosure of which would be contrary to public policy.
Students should carefully note the following main objectives of DTAA:

Page| 401.

a) Any income earned by a resident of a contracting state in the other contracting state cannot escape
from tax: asséssmenit in both the contracting states.
b) Any income: earned by a resident of a contracting state in, the other contracting state cannot be taxed
in both the contracting states:
c) Conditions:of taxability. and rates:of tax payable of a resident of.a contracting state in respect:of incomes
from various heads earned in'the other contracting state.
26.8 Other topics of International Taxation
26.8.1 Tax havens
Thére are some common misconceptions about ‘Tax Havens’. Many people corisider-any jurisdiction with
‘nil or very low tax rate as “tax haven’ which may not-always be ‘correct.
As per the definition provided by OECD, Tax haven refers to.a country which imposes a low or no'tax.is
uséd by corporations to avoid tax'which otherwise would be payable ina high-tax country. According to
OECD report, tax havens have the following key characteristics:
- No or.only nominal taxes;
- Lack of effective exchange of information; and
- Lack of transparency in the operation of the legislative, legal.or administrative provisions
As per'the International Consortium of Investigative Journalist (ICIJ), who were responsible for publishing
leaked documents in the name of ‘Paradise Papers’ and the Panama, Papers’ tax havens, or offshore
financial centers, are generally countries or places with low or no corporate taxes that allow outsiders to
easily-set up businésses.there. Tax havens also typically limit public disclosure about companies:and their
owners. Because information ‘can be hard to: extract, tax havens are sometimes also called ‘secrecy
jurisdictions..
Tax havens are speeded all over the world. Some are independent countries. like Bermuda, Panama,
Mauritius, Cyprus etc. and some are terrlTAries like British Virgin Islands (BVI), Cayman Islands, etc.
So, Tax:haven nations aré those. with nil or moderate level of'taxation and/or offering liberal tax incentives
for export activities, shipping business. These tax.havens attract investments as the corporate tax rate is
low: They may also exempt dividends and capital gains on the transfer or exchange of movable assets
like shares.and sometime immovable properties like land, building, plants etc. Besides'tax haven countries
‘may. also pursue absolute secrecy:and easy exchange control policies to attract offshore investors:
There, are two types of tax haven—
1. Nil tax haven
2. Nil tax outside haven countries
26.8.2 Thin capitalization
A. company is typically financed (or capitalized) through:a mixture of'debt and equity. —Thin capitalization
refers to thé situation in which a company is financed through a relatively high level of débt compared to
equity. Thinly capitalized companies are sometimes referred to ‘as —highly leveraged or —highly geared..
Why is thin capitalization significant?
The way-a company is capitalized will often have a significant impact on the amount of profit‘it reports for
tax purposes. Country tax rules typically:allow-a deduction for interest paid.or payable in arriving at the tax
measure of profit. The higher the level of debt in’a company, and thus amount of interest it pays, the lower
will be its taxable profit. For this reason, debt is:often a more tax efficient method of finance than equity.
Page | 402

Multinational groups are often able to structure their financing arrangements to maximize'these benefits.
Not. only ‘are. they able to establish a ‘tax-efficient mixture of debt and equity in borrowing countriés, they
are also able to influence the tax treatment of the lender which receives the interest - for example, the
arrangements:may be structured in a way that allows the interest to be received in a jurisdiction that either
does not tax’the interest income, or'which subjects such interest to a low tax rate.
Example 1: Debt to equity investment of 1 to 1.
Company X, a corporation from Country’A, establishes group affiliate Company Y if Country B with an
investment of'$50 in equity capital and a loan of $50:from Company X at a 10% interest rate. Company Y
generates pre-tax and pre-interest operating income of $15 for year’2020, and pays interest to Company
X.at 10% i.e. an interést payment of’ $5. The post-interest'taxable profit of Company. Y is $10 and, taxed
at.a 30% tax rate, generates tax revenue of $3 for Country B and net profit of $7 for Company Y..
Example 2: A debt to equity investment of 9 to 1.
Company X, a corporation from Country A, establishes another group affiliate Company Z in Country C
with an investment: of 10 in equity capital and a loan of $90. from Company X. at a 10% interest rate.
Company Z also generates pre-tax and pre-interest income. of $15 for year 2020, and pays interest to
Company :X at 10% i.e. a total interest payment of $9. The remaining taxable profit of Company Z is $6
and taxed at a 30% tax rate, which generates tax revenue of $1.8 for Gountry C and $5.20 for Company
Y.
Apparently, it would indicate that Company Y in Country B is more profitable as it is earning $7 in year
2020 against $5.20 earned by Company 2 in Country C. However, if the interest payment is also
considered than it would appearthat Company Y could remit $12 (interest $5 + Profit $7) but Company:
Z’s remittance is $14.20 (interest $9 + Profit $5.20). The excess amount of remittance by Company Z is
‘due to the additional tax benefit taken on interest payment.
What are —thin capitalization” rules?
As described above, the manner in which a company is capitalized can have a significant effect on the
amount of profit it reports, and thus the amount of tax it pays.
For this reason, country tax:administrations often introduce rules that place a limit on the amount of interest
that can be deducted in calculating the measure of a company’s profit for tax purposes. Such rules are
designed to counter ‘cross-border shifting of profit through excessive debt, and thus aim to protect a
country’s tax base. From a policy perspective, failure to tackle excessive interest payments to associated
enterprises gives MNEs an advantage over purely domestic businesses. which are unable to gain'such tax
advantages.
Thin capitalization rules typically: operate by means of one of two approaches:
a) determining a maximum amount of:debt.on which deductible interest payments are available; and
b) Determining a maximum amount of interest that may be deducted by ‘reference to the ratio of interest
(paid or payable) to another variable.
26.8.3 The Base Erosion and Profit. Shifting (BEPS)
The international tax landscape has changed dramatically in recent years. With political support of G20
Leaders, the international community has taken joint action to increase. transparency and exchange of
information in tax matters, and to address weaknesses of the international tax system that create
opportunities for BEPS. The internationally agreed standards of transparéncy-and exchange of information
in the tax area have put an end to the era of bank secrecy. With over 130 countries and jurisdictions
currently participating; the Global Forum on Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes
Page:| 403

has: ensured consistent and effective implementation of international transparency..standards since its
establishment in 2009.

At the same time, the financial crisis and aggressive tax planning by multinational enterprises (MNEs)
have. put BEPS high.on the political agenda. With a conservatively estimated annual revenue loss of USD
100 to 240 billion, the stakes are high for governments around the: world. The impact of BEPS on
developing countries, as a percentage of tax revenues, is estimated to be even higher than in developed
countries.

Domestic tax,base erosion and profit:shifting (BEPS) due'to multinational enterprises exploiting gaps and
mismatches between different countries’ tax systems affects all countries. Developing countries’ higher
teliance. on corporate income tax means they suffer from BEPS disproportionately.

Business. operates internationally, so governments must act together to tackle BEPS and restore trust in
domestic.and international tax systems. BEPS practices cost countries 100240 billion USD ‘in lost revenue
annually, which is the equivalent to 4-10% of the global corporate income tax revenue.

Working together.in the OECD/G20 BEPS Project, over 60 countries jointly delivered 15 Actions to tackle
tax avoidance, improve the. coherence: of international tax rules and énsure. a. more: transparerit tax
environment.

26.8.4 Anti-Avoidance Rules against International Tax Planning

The main anti-avoidance rules against international tax planning in place among OECD and G20 countries
are: based on five main dimensions. Anti-avoidance rules can effectively reduce tax planning by
multinational enterprises (MNEs). Also strong anti-aVvoidance rules can reduce the impact of tax planning
on market concentration and increase the sensitivity of tax-planning MNEs’ investment-to changes in the
corporate tax rate:

Strong rules reduce manipulation of debt locatioh. Finally, strong anti-avoidance rules can reduce the
strategic tax-motivated location of patents.

Thé main types of anti-avoidance rules against international tax planning can be described as:follows:

1. Transfer price rules require that cross-border transactions between related firms should be valued at
market price. (so-called “arm’s-length” principle). When no comparable transaction exists, different
valuation:methods can be used, for instance based on cost plus a fixed mark-up or'using economic models
to split'the relevant profit‘among entities.

2. Thin capitalization. rules. and rules limiting interest: deductibility disallow the deduction of certain
interest expenses when the. debt-to-equity or the interest-to-earnings ratio of the debtor is considered
excessive. These rules apply either to total or related-party debt.

3. Controlled foreign company (CFC) rules aim at eliminating the deferral of tax-on certain income by
using lower-tax foreign affiliates or the exemption on certain mobile foreign source income.

4. General anti-avoidance rules. (GAARs) prohibit““aggressive” tax avoidance, for iristance, by denying
tax benefits from a transaction that lacks economic:substance.

5. Withholding taxes:on interest, royalties.and.dividends are-not'anti-avoidance rules in:a.strict sense,
but they can also influence firms’ profit shifting opportunities. For instance, ‘withholding taxes on interest
payments can discourage the use of (internal) debt-for tax. planning. Withholding taxes on royalties can
discourage the. allocation of royalties to certain jurisdictions to gain.a tax advantage.

26.8.5. International tax disputes
Page | 404

International tax disputes. are between the taxes, authorities of two different countries. They result from
differing interprétations of the provisions of'a tax treaty between the two-couritries. However, they mainly
affect taxpayers with cross-border economic activities, usually transnational corporations (TNCs)
commonly known as multinational company (MNC) operating in at least Two or more than. countries.
Most disputes concern the allocation of profits of MNCs, and the growth has occurred as enforcement of
transfer pricing rules has strengthened. Developing countries have been introducing transfer pricing rules
and are now improving enforcement. So MNCs fear there’will be more disputes. This fear may be justified,
since the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines aré complex: arid do not provide clarity: They require tax
officials to identify the functions performed by each part of the MNC, by analyzing its business:model. This
requires:specialized knowledge and involves discretionary and subjective judgements.
Double Tax treaties are normally incorporated into domestic law. So, taxpayers -can go to court if they
disagree with how a treaty rule is applied. But tax treaties also give. them the right to complain to the
competent.authority. in the relevant national ‘tax.administration. The competent authority is obliged either
to resolve the issue, or, Under the mutiial agreement procedure (MAP), to consilt with. the competent
authority of the Double Tax treaty partner. /
Under the MAP, the competent authorities must ‘endeavor’ to solve the problem — but are not
obliged (0 00 so. The MAP is totally.secret. Even the existence of a claim is not made public: Tax advisers
‘prefer the: MAP over court cases, which generally are public. But they complain that the MAP takes too
long, and does not guarantee an. outcome. They have long urged that unresolved disputes should go. to
binding third party arbitration.
When a MAP request is submitted, the Competent Authority (CA) will need some preliminary information
to consider whether thé case is eligible for MAP. The information necessary to process a MAP depends
on the nature and complexity of the case. If the main focus of the case is on the interpretation and
application of.a particular article.in the tax treaty, the taxpayer may not.need to prepare-any. documentation
other than some basic information about the case. On the other hand, if the case.is highly factual and
complex and thereforé requires. rigorous. ahalysis and evaluation of facts. and circumstances, the CAs
involved in the process would need a considerable amount of information to examine the case properly.
In either:situation, it should be stressed that at the initial-stage of MAP it would be enough to establish the
taxpayer's eligibility for MAP, therefore.it would not be necessary to review the substantive basis of the.
case. Accordingly, documentation the taxpayer has to provide at this stage would be considered iin light
of what information the CA needs to confirm the eligibility: of the case for MAP.

Page:| 405

টো a ee aes S lu Ge =
Chapter-27
Transfer pricing
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list
“271| Conceptoftransfer pricing = ফা
27.2| Introduction of transfer pricing regulations in 89798909590...
27.3| Important definitions relating to transfer pricing
pannccnennneenensceeeneceeesceeensetennsneteneteensceeenscetesstsenssesenscseesesesnssesenscesesnstassessnnnanenanstenanatennnnenananennnntnnnnntnananenanatnanantnananenanatennnntnananenanatennnntnananenanannnd
27.4; Arm’s length price ;
27.5| Factors to be considered in judging uncontrolled international transaction =
The factors to be. considered for the most appropriate method
27.6| Reporting of information relating to international transaction == tst—S
27.7; Assessment of transfer pricingcases
27.8| Penalties intransferpricingreguiation == CS
27.1 Concept:of transfer pricing
Transfer pricing is the setting of prices of goods & services sold between controlled legal entities.
If a subsidiary company sells goods to a parent company; the cost of thosé goods jis the transfer price.
Suppose a company ‘A’ purchases goods for Tk. 1,000 and sells. it to an associate company B for Tk.
2,000 who then sells in the open market for Tk. 4,000. Had A.sold it.directly in open market:it could earn
a profit of Tk.3,000. By routing through B the profit is restricted to Tk. 1,000. The profit of Tk. 2,000 is
shifted to.country of B. The goods are transferred.on an arbitrary price (transfer price) and not open market
price.
Thé expression “transfer pricing” thus refers to prices of transaction between associated enterprises which
may take place under different ‘condition from those between two independent enterprises. The effect of
transfer pricing is that the. parent company:or a subsidiary tends’ to declare insufficient taxable income or
excessive loss in. transaction because corporate tax rate varies between countries. Multinational
companies tend to reduce their tax burden by'shifting profit of countries where tax rate is higher to:country
where tax rate is lower.
Page | 406

Transfer pricing may occur in transaction of (a) goods (b) service (০) ৮৪6৪ of property (including intangible
property). This may occur:

(a) Between two related enterprises.
(b) Through transaction in foreign currency.
Most countries including Bangladesh have taken policy of ‘arm’s length price’ to combat __ transfer
pricing.
27.2 Introduction of‘transfer pricing regulations in Bangladesh
The incorporation of transfer pricing regulations into the Income ‘Tax Act occurred as ৪ significant
development with the Finance Act, 2012. Addressing this complex matter, Chapter II of Part 15 (section
233 to 239) of the Income. Tax Act of 2023, along with Rule.71, 72,73, 74, 75, and 75A from the Income
Tax Rules of 1984, comprehensively encompasses the framework for transfer pricing regulations. These
regulations: are strategically introduced beforehand, serving multiple objectives. Firstly, they provide
taxpayers with adequate time: to meticulously prepare their records in compliance with the regulations.
Secondly, these regulatioris afford the tax authority the. necessary time to establish and consolidate a
robust database. Lastly, a critical facet involves training tax officials and enhancing their capacity to
effectively implement the transfer pricing regulations. , )
ln accordance with these regulations, the: scope of transfer pricing extends to two pivotal sceharios—it
applies to international transactions involving associated enterprises, ensuring that transactions between
these interconnected entities. adhere ‘to fair market values, and the transfer pricing regulations come into
play when at least one of the enterprises involved is non-résident. This comprehensive approach ensures
the integrity of financial transactions and the equitable distribution of taxes in cross-border economic
activities.
27.3 Important definitions relating to transfer pricing
(a) Associated enterprise: An "associated enterprise” refers’ to an enterprise that ‘shares a certain
relationship with another enterprise during a. given incomé year. This. relationship is: defined by several
criteria. First, if one enterprise engages in the management, ০০001, or capital aspects of another
enterprise, either directly, indirectly, or through intermediaries, they are.considered associated. Similarly,
if one enterprise holds shares with more than 25% of the voting power in the other or’ provides cumulative
borrowing, exceeding 50% of the recipient's book value of total asset or gives cumulative guarantees
exceeding 10% of the recipient's total book value of borrowing, shall be considered as associated
enterprise. Moreover, if one enterprise appoints over half of the other's board members, has practical
decision-making influence, or appoints: of Shares. executive diréctors or members, then it would become
‘associated enterprise.
This definition also. encompasses situations where the same. individual participates in the management,
control, or capital of both enterprises, directly or indirectly, or holds controlling shares exceeding 25% of
voting power, or appoints over 50% of board members.or executive directors or members.
(b) International transaction: “International transactions’—transaction between associated eriterprises,
either or both of whom are: non-resident, in any nature having a bearing on the profits, income, losses,
assets, financial position or economic:value and includes—

(i) a mutual ‘agreement or arrangement for allocation or apportionment:or contribution of cost, expenses
incurred or to be incurred in. connection‘with benefit, service or facility provided;

(ii) a transaction entered in by an’ enterprise with a person, irrespective of whether such other person is:a
non-résident or not! other than associated enterprise, if there exists a prior agfeement.bétween such other
person and associated enterprise or the terms of the relevant transaction are determined in substance
between such other person and the associated enterprise.

Page | 407

(c) Property: “Property” includes: goods, articles, things or items, patent, invention, formula, process,
design, pattern, know-how, copyright, trademark, trade name, brand name, literary; musical, or artistic
composition, franchise, license or contract, method, program, software, database, system, procedure,
campaign, survey, study; forecast, estimate, customer list, technical data; any aspects of advertising and
marketing, any item which has substantial value, or any other intangible property;

(d) Transaction: “Transaction’—any. arrangement, understanding or action, whether formal or written or
intended to be legally enforceable. or not;

27.4Arm’s length price—the basis of determining transfer pricing

Price shall be determined based on nature, availability of information, functions performed, assets
employed, risk assumed etc by applying most appropriate method like—

(a) Comparable uncontrolled price method;

(b) Resale price: method;

(c) Cost plus method;

(d) Profit split method;

(9) Transactional net margin method;

(f) .Any other method that yields a result consistent with the arm's length price.

Where most appropriate method applied is amethod other than (d) and (f), the dataset of the arm’s length
price’ consists six or more entries, arm's length range beginning from the 30% and ending on the 70% of
the dataset shall be constructed and. arm’s.léngth price shall be:

এ; actual price if the price belongs to the said range;

a) if actual price is outside the range, then arm’s length price. shall be the median of the dataset.

In case the-dataset is less than six entries, the arm’s length price.shall be the arithmetical mean of all the
values included in the dataset. Arm's length price shall not result, lower income basis the international
transaction actually undertaken. DCT may determine.arm's length price ifthe think the price has not been
détermined as per provision or fails to:maintain required.documents of the price computation is not reliable
or incorrect.

27.4.1 Comparable uncontrolled price method:

1] the price.charged or paid for property transferred or services. provided in an uncontrolled transaction
or a number'of transactions of: comparable. circumstances is identified; ; a

2. if the price so identified differs:from the price of the international transaction, the differential amount
is calculated;

3 the price of international transaction is then adjusted by the said differential amount; _

4. the adjusted price under sub-clause: (iii) is taken to be the arm's. length price of the property
transferred or services rendered in the international transaction.

27.4.2 Resale price method:

(i) ‘the price ‘at which the said property or service is resold to an independent enterprise is identified;

(ii) the price, as identified in sub-clause (i), is reduced by a.comparable normal gross margin;

(iii) the. pricé so arrived at is then adjusted for other Unique costs (such as customs duty) associated with
the purchase of the property or services;

(iv) the price so arrived at.is then adjusted to take into account the material differences (differences that
could materially affect the gross margin in open market condition) such as. functions. performed, risks
involved, assets employed, time gap. between the original purchase and the resale and’ accounting
practices between. the: international transactions and the comparable: uncontrolled transactions, or
between the enterprises undertaking ‘such transactions; - ;

(v) the. adjusted price under sub-clause (iv). shall be taken to be the. arm's length price. of the property
purchased or the service obtained in the international transaction.
Page | 408

27.4.3 Cost plus method:
(i). the direct and indirect costs incurred in the supply-of property 01076, provision of services, hereinafter
referred to as cost base, are determined;
(ii) a comparable profit mark-up (based on comparable accounting policies) is identified;
(iii) appropriate adjustment is then made to the comparable profit mark-up adjusted to take into account
the material differences (differences that could materially’ affect the. mark-up in open market condition)
such as functions performed, risks involved, assets employed, contractual terms and market conditions
between the. international transactions and the comparable uncontrolled transactions, or between the
enterprises undertaking such transactions. ;
(iv) the adjusted profit mark-up under sub-clause (iii) is then added to the cost base;
(v) the sum so arrived at is taken. to be the arm’s length price of the property transferred or services
provided in the international transaction.
27.4.4 Profit split method:
(i) the combined profit, arising from international trarisaction or trarisactions and divisible among the
associated enterprises, is identified.
(ii) the combined profit is then divided among the associated enterprises by using the following
approaches:
(a) each of the associated enterprises is allocated a basic return. based on the basic functions
(manufacturing, distribution, service provision etc.) each enterprise performed and determined by
reference to market returns earned by independent enterprise in similar transaction. This basic:return doés
not usually account for the return that would be: generated by any unique and valuable assets possessed
by the. associated enterprises. The residual profit (which may be attributable to such unique assets),
calculated by deducting the sum of basic returns allocated to associated enterprises from the combined
profit, is then apportioned to the associated enterprisé based on their relative contribution and ‘taking into
consideration how independent enterprises in similar circumstances would have divided such, residual
profit; or
(b) basic return is not allocated to the associated enterprises; the combined profit is divided among the
associated enterprises. based on the relative contribution of each the associated enterprises to that profit;
(iii) the profit thus allocated to the assessee under sub-clause (ii) is‘taken to be the arm’s length price.
27.4.5 Transactional net margin method: - the net profit margin earned by the associated enterprise

from ‘the international transaction with the associated enterprise is computed having regard to an

appropriate base such as costs, sales or assets;
(i). ‘the.net profit margin-earned by-an indépendent.enterprise or enterprises from comparable uncontrolled
transaction or a number of.such transactions is computed having regard to the same base;
(ii) appropriate adjustment is then made to the net profit margin referred to in sub-clause (ii) to take into
account the differences, that can materially affect the. net profit margin, between the international
transactions and the comparable uncontrolled transactions, of between the enterprises, undertaking such
transactions;
(iii) the adjusted net: profit margin under sub-clause (iii) is then applied to the base as referred to in sub-
clause. (i) to arrive at'the:arm’s length price in relation to:the international transaction.
27.5 Factors to be considered in judging uncontrolled international transaction
(1) The factors to be considered in judging uncontrolled international transaction is described if rule. 71.
These are as‘follows:
(a) the characteristics:of property, services or intangible. properties. involved in the transaction:

Page | 409

(i) the case of tangible property: physical features, quality and reliability, availability, volume and timing
of property transferred; .

(ii) in the case of services provided: the nature and extent of the services;

(iii) in-the.case of intangible property: the type of intangible, the-form.of transaction, the-expected benefits,
the duration of protection, the degree of protection, etc:;

(6) the functions performed, the risks‘ assumed and the assets employed, especially the functions, risks
and assets that are. materially significant in determining the price or margin if relation to the international
transaction;

(a) the contractual terms (whether or not such terns. are formal or written). dictating the allocation of
responsibilities, risks and benefits between enterprises involved in the international transaction;

(8). economic circumstances, that -affect the international transaction and uncontrolled transactions,
including geographic location, the. size and level of markets; the extent of competition in ‘the market, the
availability of substitute.goods:and services,.the:purchasirig powers.of consumers,.government ofders:and
policies and the timing of the transaction;.

(c) Any other factors. that have material effect on the international transaction and uncontrolled
transaction.

(2). An uncontrolled transaction shall be deemed to.comparable to an international ‘transaction if:,

(i) there are:no material differences in respect of cost, price or margin between the transactions being
compared or between the enterprises undertaking such transactions; or

(ii) reasonably accurate adjustments. can be made to eliminate any material differences in the
transactions..

(3) In analyzing the comparability, data relating to the relevant financial year (in which the international
transaction has been entered into) shall be considered.

Provided that. data relating to a period prior to the financial year may also be considered if such data
bears-such facts. which could have an influence on the analysis of comparability.
27.6 The factors to be considered forthe most:appropriate method

The factors to be considered for the most appropriate method are described in rule72:

(a).'the nature and class of the international transaction, and of enterprises entering into the: international
transaction; -

(b) the. comparability'factors (industry, functions, risks, contractual terms, market level) that aré materially
significant in determining the price.or margin in relation to the international transaction,

(০) the quality (availability, coverage, validity and reliability) of relevant data;

(0) ‘the reliability of assumptions in the. method;

(e) the sensitivity of results in the:deficiency in data and assumptions;

(f) the extent to which the reliable and accurate adjustments can be made to eliminate the differences, if
any, between the international transaction and the comparable uncontrolled transaction or between the
enterprises entering into such transactions:

27.7 Reporting of information relating to international transaction
According to section 237 every person having international transaction will keep information and maintain
record as: per role’ 73 as under:

(a) Ownership profilé of the multinational group in which the assessee 91716101156 is a member. Profile
should include information:on groups:global organizational.structure, showing in details the name, location,
legal status and country‘of tax.residence of the enterprises in the group:with whom the assessee.enterprise
have. international transactions, and ownership. linkages among then;

Page | 410

(8) business profile. of the group including the line of business, industry dynamics, and market and
economic environment in which the group operates, and the business model and strategies of past,
present and future; .

(c) brief business profiles of each of the member of the group;

(0) information on'the. business relationship (purchase and sells. of goods, provision of services, use of
assets and intangibles etc.) among the members of the groups;

(6), ‘consolidated financial statement of the group; 7

(f) profile of the assessee enterprise and each of the associated enterprises. operating in Bangladesh,
incliiding tax and VAT registration number, IRC & ERC numbers, address, locations of activity centers
etc.;

(g) business profile of the assessee enterprise and each of the: associated enterprises operating in,
Bangladesh including the lirie of business, industry dynamics, and, market and economic environment in
which the assessee enterprise operates, and the business model and strategies of past, present and future
of the:assessee enterprise;

(0) brief-description of the functions performed, risks assumed and assets employed or'to be employed
by'thé assessee and bythe associated enterprises involved in the international ‘transaction;

(i) financial statements of the assessee enterprise and each of the associated enterprises operating in
Bangladesh;

(j) information on economic and market analyses, forécasts, budgets: or any other financial estimates
prepared by the assessee enterprise and each of the associated enterprises operating in Bangladesh
either for whole business or for any segment or line of product;

(k) details of all transactions with the associated enterprises;

(0) contracts, térms and agreenierits of the transactions with associated efiterprises;

(m) segment financial statements with respect to the: transactions with associated 91719100565;

(n) the manner-of choosing tested party including the rationale for the choice:

(0) details: of comparable iricluding the manner iri which the comparable. have been screened. and the
adjustment made to achieve comparability;

(p) details of comparability:analysis;

(q) the manner of choosing tested party including the rationale for choice;

(r). information on transfer pricing method chosen considered for determining the arini’s length price
including the justification stating why the method is considered most appropriate;

(s) ‘records showing the. calculations and workings regarding the determination of ‘the arm’s length
price/margin including the explanation. of any assumption;

(t) any assumption, policy and price negotiations which may have an effect on the determination of the
arm’s length price; 7

(u) information on. any adjustment made to ‘transfer prices to align them ‘with arm’s length prices
determined under thesé.rules and consequent:adjustment made to the total income for tax purposes;

(v) any other information, data or document, including information or data relating to the associated
enterprise, which may be relevant for-determination of the arm's length price.

The information specified above shall be. supported by authentic. documents, which may include: the
following: :

(a) Official publications, reports, studies and data bases from the Government. of the country of
residence: of the associated enterprise, or of any other country;

(b) Reports of market research studies:carried.out and technical publications brought out by institutions
of national or international repute;

(c) Price publications including stock exchange and commodity market quotations;

(d) Published accounts. and financial statements. relating to: the business affairs of the associated
enterprises;

(e) Agreements and contracts entered into with associated enterprises or with unrelated enterprises in
respect of transactions similar to the international transactions:

(f) Letters and other correspondence documenting any terms negotiated between the assessee and
the associated énterprise;

(g) Documents normally issued in connection with various transactions under'the accounting practices
followed.

Page| 411

The information:and documents specified shall be kept and maintained for a period of eight years from the
end of the relevant assessment year.
According to section 238, every person, having international transaction is required to furnish information
regarding international transaction in prescribed form. Such formis prescribed in rule. 75A. This information
in prescribed form is to accompany annual tax return.. The’ form prescribed in rule 75A is as follows:
STATEMENT OF INTERNATIONAL TRANSACTIONS
(Section 238 of the Income Tax Act, 2023 and Rule 75A. of the IT Rules, 1984)
A. Particulars of the Assessee:
1.Name of the আদা ক তন ৷্৷্৷*!
3.(a) ঠ106:: (8) Taxes 70106::
4.Assessment Yat: ০১১১১০১১১১১১৬
5. Income Year: From «222. ও
B. Particulars of International Transactions [see section 233 (5)]
PART-I
Tangible property of revenue and capital nature transaction
Item Expense | TPMCode] % Revenue TPM Code] %
(Thousand (Thousand Tk.)
Tk.)
Stock in trade
raw materials
Rent, royalties and intangible property related transaction
Item Expense TPM % Revenue TPM %
(Thousand Tk.)| Code (Thousand Tk.)] Code.
Ret ft
Royalties
(for the use
of paterits
trademark
etc.
License of
franchise
fees
Intangible
property o
rights
(acquired o
disposed
of
Services related transaction
Page | 412

Item Expense: | TPM Code % Revenue © TPM Code %
(Thousand Tk.) (Thousand Tk.)
Treasury
related
services
Management
and
administrative
services
Sales and
marketing
services
Research and
development
Software and
ICT services
Technical arid
engineering
services
সেও | __ _
সদ | _
Asset
management
Other services
specif
Financial transaction
Item Expense — TPM % Revenue TPM Code} %
(Thousand Tk.)| Code (Thousand TK:)
itest fF
Sale of
financial
assets
(including
factoring,,
securitization
and securities]
Lease
payments
Securities
lending (feeg
and
compensation
| payment
Page | 413

Insurance and
reinsurance
Guarntoss ||
Other sérvices
L_(specify)
Any other international transaction of revenue. nature not reported above:
Total of PART-1
PART-II
Interest bearing loans, advances and investments (figures in thousand taka)
Item Opening. Increase Decrease Closing Balance
Balance.
Amounts
owed by the
assessee
Amounts _
owed to the
assessee
Current accounts and similar items (figures in thousand taka)
Amounts of
accounts
payable.
Amounts _ of
accounts
receivable
মর ২১০11 ০ ক ৯ নন্দলালের
এস ০০০০ ২২-১2-১১০২, Solemnly 09601816: 00810 the best of my knowledge and belief the information given
in this Form is correct and complete.
Id [- (Ch: ০৬০০১০১০১১১
চ038(:
Signature
(Name in block letters)
Designation. and Seal
Instructions
1. Enter the total value of international transaction for each item in the appropriate column..
Page | 414

2. Enter the appropriate Transfer Pricing Method Code(s) (TPM Code) in PART-I from the list given below

(see section 235).

Transfer Pricing Method (TPM) Code

Comparable Uncontrolled Price |

Cost Plus: 2

Resale Price 3

Profit Split 4

Transactional Net Margin Method 5

Others: 6
The ‘%’ column for each item.in PART-I| represents the'total value of international transactions of that.item
as:the percentage. (up to two decimal places) of the total value ofall transactions under the item.
According to section 239 every person who has entered into international transaction with one or more
persons total value:of which in an income year exceeds taka 30 million is required to:furnish a report from
a chartered accountant. This report, in prescribed form, is to accompany his annual tax return. The
prescribed form as per rule 75 is as ‘follows:
“40 The accou nts and records Of -ne--- nnn -- on nnn -nn non nnn nnn nn neem nnn nn nnn nn nn nnn nn ee nero nn nnn enone nennen--- <==
(fame and address of the assessee with TIN) relating to the international transactions entered into by the
assessee during the income year ending on, has: been examined by me.
2. It
appears from our examination of the accounts and records that proper information and documents, as:are.
required by the Income Tax Act, 2023, have been kept by the in respect of the international transaction(s)
entered into by the assessee.
e particulars required to be furnished under-section 239 are given in the Annexure to this Form.
4. In
my opinion and to the best of my information and according to the explanations given to me, the particulars
given in the. Annexure to. this form ate true.and corréct:
Signature Name:
Address:
Membership No:
Place:
Date:

27.8 Assessment procedure of transfer pricing issues:
The chronology of processing of international transaction by tax ‘authority is stated in section 236
According ‘to section .236:
(a) DCT with prior approval of NBR refers .a case to TPO:for determination of arm’s length price.
(b) TPO will then on approval of NBR proceed to determine arm’s length price in relation to:international
transaction. He will then.serve notice to taxpayer to produce.evidences.in support international transaction.
(০) TPO will then determine: ‘arm’s length price in relation to international transaction considering
evidences produced and all other related information he will send his report to the DCT..
(d) DCT will then .assess total income &taxes payable on the basis of report of TPO and all other relevant
‘matter.
27.9 Penalties in transfer pricing regulation:
Page | 415

1. According to section 277 income tax authority may. impose '৪ penalty up to 1% of international
transaction for failing to furnish information or not:maintaining fecords.

2. According to section 276 income tax authority may impose a penalty up to 1% of international
transaction for failing to comply with requisition of a notice.

3. According to section 278 income tax authority may impose a penalty up to 2% of the value of such
international transaction for non-submission of statement:of international transaction as per section 238..
4. According to section 279 income tax authority may impose a penalty up to BDT 3 lakh for’failing to
furnish report of chartered accountant as per section.239.

Question no 1

XYZ Pharmaceuticals Limited, a pharmaceutical manufacturiig company, commenced its operations: in
2015. The audited profit & loss statement of the company for the year ended:30 June, 2023 is as follows:

— _ 12,000

Other information:

(i) Depréciation booked in the accounts during the year Tk. 30 million. As per tax law depreciation for the
year would be Tk. 50: million.

(ii) Royalty charged to-expense: during the year was Tk. 9.60 million (8%_-of net sales).

(iii) Expense incurted for free:samples distributed was Tk. 5 million.

(iv) Out of'the total employees of the company 10 employees’ salaries include perquisites on an average
Tk. 10,50,000. each, 10 employees” salaries, include perquisites on an average: Tk. 400,000. No other
employee's:salaries have perquisites more than Tk. 475,000.

(v) Provision ‘for gratuity made: during the year was TK. 1,000,000, whereas gratuity paid during the year
was Tk. 900,000. , .

(vi) The company contributed to the employees’ provident fund during the year Tk. 1,500,000. The
provident fund is duly recognized by coficerned Commissioneér.of Taxes.

(vii) Entertainment:expense of Tk. 250,000 charged during the year.

(viii) Financial, expense includes Tk. 2: million for the interest paid on the foreign loan received from its.
overseas parent company. The. rate of interest is LIBOR+4.50. The transfer pricing officers of NBR have
‘assessed that the arm’s length rate of interest of the: similar loan should LIBOR+3.0 [Assume the LIBOR
rate was 0.50]

Required:

(i) Compute the total income of the company for the year.

(ii) Compute the net tax liability of the company for the year

Solution-1:
Page | 416

Computation of total income of XYZ Pharmaceuticals Ltd. for the assessment year 2023-24:
Taka Taka
Net profit (loss) before tax as per accounts Pos (113,788,000)
Add:
Accounting depreciation 30,000,000
Royalty 9,600,000.
Free.samples 5,000,000
Excess perquisites (10;50,000-10,00,000) x 10 500,000
Provision for gratuity 1,000,000
Entertainment 250,000
Interest.on foreign loan 2,000,000
48,350,000
Léss:
Tax depreciation ‘50,000,000
Free.samples expenses (Note-1) 1,600,000
Gratuity paid during the year __ - 900,000
Interest on foreign Joan (2000/5% X.3.5%) 1,400,000
Entertainment (Note 2) Nil
Royalty expenses. (Note-3) Nil
(53,900,000)
| Totalincome (108,238,000)
Notes:
[1] 2% on.5 crore, 1% on next 5 crore and 0:5% on balance Tk..2 crore of turnover (section 55(i))
[2] As:there no taxable profit, no entertainment will be allowed as per-section.66(h)
[8] Royalty is allowed up to 10% of disclosed net profit. As disclosed net profit is negative ‘so no royalty is
allowed (section 55(e)).
[4] Though. the company suffered loss but tax @ 30% (assuming that the conditions to avail 27.5% tax
rate not. fulfilled) to be paid on disallowances U/s 55 as per section 56. Total disallowances u/s 55 are:
[1] Royalty Tk. 96,00,000
[2] Free samples Tk. :34,00,000.
[3] Excess perquisites Tk. 5;00,000
[4] Entertainment Tk. 2,50,000
Total Tk. 1,37,50,000. Tax@ 30% comes at Tk:41,25,000
Computation of tax liability of'the company
Tax on calculated loss
Nil
But tax @ 30% as per sec. 56 on disallowances u/s 55
Tk. 41,25,000
+
Tax on gross receipts as per section 163(5) (12 crore X 0.60%) ‘Tk. 7,20,000
Therefore, the net tax liability of 006 company for the AY 2023-24 will be Tk. 48,45,000
Question no 2
Page | 417

XYZ Bangladesh Ltd. a 100% Chinese equity-held ‘A’ category’ private company, operating as export-
oriented(deemed) security label products factory in Savar EPZ and enjoying 10-year tax holiday, have
related party transactions. You.are an ACA, working as deputy to the CA Firm’s tax partner who specializes
in TP. Tax partner advised XYZ_as ‘to the appropriate methods for pricing, international transactions. He
filed tax return of XYZ Bangladesh Ltd. for income year ended 30.06.2023 together with Statement u/s
238 of the Act, Rule 75A; selected extracts are:
Particulars. of International Transactions (XYZ Bangladesh Ltd. For y/e 30.06.2023) PART - |
Tangible. property of revenue and capital nature transactions
Item Expense ‘000) Revenu) TPM Code
TPMCode % e(‘000
Export of F/G 150,000
15% TNMM
Import of R/M
50,000. TNMM 10%
Import of Machineries 200,000
OTHER 75%
Service. related transactions
Item. Expense (‘000) TPM Code Revenu TPM Code
| %0০ e(‘000
Management Fee 10,000 TNMM 100%
PART - Il
Interest free loans, advances and investments (figures in ‘000 taka)
Item Opening Balance Increase. Decrease: Closing Balance
Due. to. Assessee teeee 5:000 --- 5,000
Current:accounts and similaritems (figures in thousand taka)
Item. Opening Balance Increase Decrease. Closing Balance
Accounts Payable 35,000 50,000 -- 85,000
Accounts Receivable. 65,000 50,000 115,000
Exports of F/G to AE are same ,label products". The import-of R/M includes semi-finished label papers of
high specifications which are available only with one Chinese supplier; the AE in question has global
vollime contract with Chinese Supplier. Machineries include state-of-the-art printers from proprietary
sources. Management fee is shared cost of technical team sitting in China under a Management Service
Agreement with assessee. ,Due- to Assessee" includes remittance made to Paris trading office of the
company to support its initial set-up cost (opened in June 2022). This new'trading office is set up to secure
nominations for its. label products. from..EU customers ‘who source apparel products from Bangladeshi
suppliers. DCT referred the case for y/e 30.06.2023 to TPO u/s 236. TPO served a notice. to XYZ
Bangladesh, Ltd. u/s 236 (2) requiring to explain:
1.Why-assessee relied on TNMM method and ‘OTHER’ method for reported/selected transactions with
AEs? 7
2.Why'TP adjustment should not be given on mahagement fee paid to AE in Shanghai?
3.Why TP adjustment should not be given on interest-free remittance.to AE in Paris?
Page | 418

4.Why'TP adjustment should not bé given for interest.on overdue receivable from AEs?
Long working with TP specialist tax partner brought you experience on TP advisory. NBR formed TP cell
comprising of proven high-caliber' officials from department. TP regulations are new in Bangladesh. NBR
advertised for a short-term consultant (preferably CA) to seek technical supports'to the cell in these initial
days. You got; this one-year engagement at NBR. to work as Consultant at TP. Cell, to begin from
September, 2023.
Requirements:
a) Your tax partner wants ‘you to draft:explanations in ref to TPO: notice. Cover reasons why ‘TNMM’ and
‘OTHER’ methods are used by XYZ Ltd in its reported transactions as opposed to other methods.
b) Draft explanation for your partner covering the réasons as to why TP adjustments-should not be givén
for reported management fee, interest-free remittance and overdue receivable.
০) During incumbéncy’ at. NBR, ‘you will Support. TP team with your findings identifying potential
adjustments involving critical returns. Assume, you are tasked by TP headto _
provide findings on.a return filed by your ex-Tax partner. Answer your position covering ethical threats, if
any, and your possible. actions.
Solution 2(a)
ATP study on XYZ Ltd was carried out, ready for submission to tax authority. At XYZ Ltd., operating
margin is taken as profit level indicator (PLI) when using TNMM method. Rule 70(1) of the IT Rules, 1984
was 'taken.as guidance and thus the.selected methods were. decided for given international transactions.
TNMM uses objective measures:of profitability, called Profit.Level Indicators (PLI) to evaluate whether the
price of controlled transactions is at arm’s length and so it was taken as appropriate for finished goods.
sale (export), raw material import and Management fee. At XYZ Ltd. when. using Transactional net
margin method (TNMM) for determining selling price of ‘label products’, PBIT margin on export sales
from sale transactions with AEs were compared with the PBIT margin on sale from export transaction
with unrelated customers. Adjustments for difference in functional:analysis between ‘transactions with. AEs
and Unrelated parties were.also given.
Similarly, for purchase, of materials. from AEs, PBIT margin on cost from transactions. of purchase raw
material transactions with AEs were compared with the.PBIT margin on cost:from trarisactions of purchase
raw: material transactions with unrelated suppliers. As the raw materials semi-finished, of high
specifications and they are sourced from selected Chinese suppliers under the global volume contract
with AEs in Shanghai, the scope of comparability with uncontrolled transactions were less. However, as.
the r/m is procured. underglobal volume contract with AE, the price of raw material réeceived by XYZ Ltd.
was.already competitive.
TNMM was used for Management fee.also on‘the.ground of simplicity. When doing this, the PBIT margin-
Management fee to AE at XYZ Ltd. was compared with the PBIT margin-Management fee relationship
practiced by unrelated competITArs in the same industry sector (Label Products). Such comparison
revealed the size of management'fee at XYZ is lower than that practiced at uncontrolled competITArs.
Application of TNMM for export-sale, t/m purchase‘and management fee thus made the-operations simple,
objective and so the prices are. duly in arm’s length. Net margin. under TNMM is less affected by.
transactional difference than in the case with price under CUP method. Net margin is also a better
indicator than gross margin which is used in'thecase of'CPM and RPM. PSM better suits service industry:
Page | 419

Use of ‘OTHER’ method was used for transactions with AEs for purchase of machineries. 77696:8/6 state-
of-the art machines, purchased from proprietary sources to maintain the: quality of label products..As the
source is ‘proprietary’ and having no other alternative, no ALP pricing methods could be applied but the
price of the supplier was taken as it is; i.e., the method falls‘'under ‘OTHER’. Section 235(1)(f) allows-using
‘any other method’ where. it'can be demonstrated that'none of the.specific five methods can be reasonably
applied to determine ALP for given international transaction. XYZ had to resort to section 235 for

‘machinery import from proprietary source.

Solution 2(b)

Rule 70(1) was’ duly complied when determining the ALP methods for the three’ items of international
transactions. Further grounds why TP adjustments should not be given on‘those three items:
Management Fee to AE. in Shanghai, China

1). Management fee is paid to AE using TNMM method which is the most reliable measure.on merit, duly
being backed by Rule 70(1) of the IT Act.

ii) Managément fee paid is still lower than size of the item practiced by thé Uncontrolled cormipétlTArs in
the same industry of label products export, revealed by TNMM approach.

iii) Pricing method. has been determined aftér a detailed TP study, submitted with tax return.

iv) The payment is well documented and the amount within the limit of section 55(e) of ITA,2023.

-v) The. amount paid to AE is towards: sharing of the cost of the technical team in China (head quarter),
well documented, and under a formalized agreement. duly approved by BIDA. The management fee
recovers proportionate cost of AE without any savings, as revealed by TP study FAR. analysis.
Remittance to.AE in Paris
iii) | New trading office in Paris was, set up to market, coordinate. and secure nominations of the EU.
rétainers for thé assessee’s label products, which will be a direct increase of assesseé’s Export.

iv) AE in Paris, being non-resident, cannot make any local borrowing there. The only option for initial
set up cost was funding from the.assesseé. This remittance is also approved by Bangladesh Bank.

V): Fund remitted to start the. set-up could otherwise be treated as ‘capital expenditure’ whereas the
remittance has been recognized as repayable loan to. AE. This. means. better protection to the assessee.
vi) Financial support made to AE comes under the ordinary business practice of assessee’s
operations. This is a one-off assistance and amount is not very large. Assessee’s business is not.
‘lending’. Therefore, there cannot be. any interest-charge. on the funds remitted.

vil) 10909015101 to support AE in. Paris: was duly approved by the BOD for:greater business cause.
Receivable from AE

i) Receivable with AE is in the ordinary:course of asséssee’s business operatioris, not extraordinary.

11) Receivable is not alone with AE, other parties also have receivable balance’as per payment.term. Such
receivable is unavoidable in business.

11) The annual increase figure of receivable is for an amount which is:equally off-set by the payable to.AE.
The net. effect on assessee is well balanced.

iv) There is no term of interest charge on the receivable: with the AEs when salé was 00176.

Solution 2(c)

As NBR consultant, | shall be in the character of a PAIB. Working on a file of my ex-tax. partner’s client at
my incumbency at TP: cell may be:an issue of ‘conflict of interest’ which. may create. threats to objectivity.
and other fundamental principles, such as, integrity, confidentiality and good reputation of my profession.
| shall be subject to NBR contractual terms, policies and proceduré of NBR and the Govt. Sécrecy law. |
shall be exposed to ‘familiarity threats’ for my long association with ex-tax partner plus a threat of ‘self-
interest’ for the likely slide of my image if | fail to. do a just job at TP cell.
Page | 420

The threats are significant. No safeguard seem to be relevant. | have to a firm position. As a TP Cell
corisultant, | shall. draw-an ethical wall both in fact and appearance unde” the circumstances. | shall remain
objective, confidential at.all times:and shall not allow.any undue influence including any familiarity pressure
in my mind to override my professional judgment. | shall not allow conflict, of interest. but shall disclose to
my TP cell boss ‘the. fact. of my relationship with ex-tax partner and the. tasked file in hand. If | am_-still
tasked to do the job, on merit, | shall bring change in my conduct with my ex-tax partner during my
incumbency at TP Cell. Major threats as mentioned could thereby be managed well.
Question ho 3

A.Bangladeshi entity X Ltd, purchases certain finished goods from an associated enterprise in Singapore
Y Pte Ltd, which it sold to an independent enterprise in Bangladesh XY Ltd at Tk. 575,000 (inclusive. of
15% VAT). Another entity BB Ltd in Bangladesh around same time procured similar goods from an
independent enterprise:in Singapore:SS Pte Ltd:at Tk. 440,000 (inclusive recoverable VAT of Tk. 40,000),
which was sold to another Independent party ZA Ltd at Tk. 690,000 (inclusive of 15% VAT) with an
associated freight cost Tk. 35,000 and insurance cost of Tk. 15,000.
Required:
1) Determine the most appropriate method for determining the Arm’s length price and explain why this
should be: applied.
11) Compute the Arm's. length purchase price of X Ltd.
Answer to the question no-3
Requirement: 3 (i)
Most.appropriate method for this transaction would be Transactional Net Margin Method (TNMM).
The reasons behind selecting TNMM as the most appropriate method:
" General, marketing and administrative expenses are like establishment.costs and therefore they do
not directly affect the prices of the:goods in the market
«» TNMM tests the net margins of the tested party as oppose to gross margins in case of Resale Price
Method RPM or Cost Plus Method.
« TNMM becomes inevitable where the assessee has interlinked transactions of purchase. and. sale
from/to related parties where they cannot be benchmarked isolated.
Requirement: 3 (ii)
Independent Enterprise transaction:

Sales by BB Ltd excluding VAT (690,000X (100/115) ০00,000

Material cost:(purchased from.independent.enterprise):

Total cost including VAT 440,000

(-) Récoverable VAT 40,000

Material cost:without VAT 400,000

Freight. 35,000

Insurance 15,000

Operating profit 150,000

Page| 421.

Arm’s Length price computation of X Ltd:
Description Amount.
(Taka)
Sales by X Ltd to independent enterprise: excluding VAT (575,000X| 500,000
(100/115)
(-) Operating profit margin @ 25% 125,000
‘Arm’s length purchase price from associated enterprise 375,000

Question no 4 (A) [CUP Method]
Bio Chem Limited (A German Company) ‘sold 500 vaccine to its subsidiary Bio Chem BD Limited
(Bangladeshi Company) for $200 each on CIF (Cost, Insurance & Freight). basis. It sells the vaccine to
Beximco Pharma in Bangladesh also at $190 each on FOB basis: Transportation cost from Germany to
Chittagong port is $3.5 for each vaccine. Insurance cost forthe transportation is $2500 for all 500 vaccines.
The subsidiary in Bangladesh incur additional cost of $5.5 for packaging of the vaccine while the parent
takes, the responsibility. for packaging to: other subsidiaries for which the: cost is-$15 for each vaccine.
Please compute the Arm's Length price for the vaccine in Bangladesh and the required adjustment
required.
Solution 4 (A):
Arm's length price determination for transaction between Parent and Subsidiary
Particulars ] Armour
Unit price charged to Bio:chem BD Limited (AE) $200.00
Unit price charged to Independent Customer (Third party) $190.00
Add: Cost.of Transportation $3.50
Add: Cost of Insurance $5.00
Adjusted unit price* $198.50
Arm's length price per unit using internal CUP $198.50
Transfer pricing adjustment in US$ (500*($200-$198.50)) $750.00
Transfer pricing adjustment in BDT (1 US$.= 85 Taka) BDT 63,750
Question 4 (B):
External CUP
The German entity sells the same vaccine to other:subsidiaries at the following price:
Market | Selling Price (Vaccines)
$226.00
$215.00
Page | 422

$270.00
Solution 4 (B):
Arm's length price determination for transaction between Parent and Subsidiary
There.is no specific guidance.on howto determine External CUP using external price when multiple prices
are‘available: Common practice is using average of selling prices. Using average selling price of the above
three market:
পল মারার CA mt |
Average price per unit using external CUP $216.67
Packing cost incurred by parent $15.00
Arm's length. price per unit using external CUP (Average Price) $201.67
Unit price chargéd to Bio chem BD Limited (AE), $200.00
Less: Packaging Cost (B) ‘$5.50
Adjusted unit price charged'to Bio chem BD Limited by AE (A-B) $194.50
Transfer Pricing.adjustment'is.not required because. AE charged lower'price than the external selling prices
of the:same product to other ‘subsidiaries.
Resale Price Method (RPM)
Question 5:
Ryans Bangladesh Limited trades IT related product only. Ryans purchases all its: laptop from Dell Limited
(A related Party). It also: purchases its laptop from HP Limited but without warranty. Warranty cost for
laptop is BDT 1,500.
[Particulars ————S—S—«s~=séDe ll Limited (AE) HP Limited
Purchase price of Ryans 15,000 19,000:
Selling price of Ryan 18,000 26,000
Other expenses 1,000 1,500
Calculate: the arm's length price of each laptop it procures from the related party.
Solution 5:
Details of the Gross Profit Margin is as follows:
[Particulars «|= Limited (AE) HP Limited
Selling price of Ryan 18,000 26,000
Less: Purchase price of Ryans 15,000 19,000
Less: Other expenses 1,000 1,500
2,000 5,500
Calculation of ALP is as follow:
Amount (Tk)
Selling price of Ryan 18,000
Page: | 423

Less::‘Other expenses 1,000
Less: Arm's length résale: margin @21% 3,780
Add: Warranty’Cost 1,500
Adjusted Arm's Length Price 14,720
Price Paid to AE 15,000
Adjustment per product
aq
Cost Plus Method (CPM)
Question 6:
Executive Cover Limited (ECL) manufactures |-phone cases for its associated enterprise. [Phone cases
are manufactured by several other companies including Candy Casing Limited (CCL). Both CCL & ECL
manufactures the same product
Details of the transactions:of both the parties are given below:
Selling price 12,000 13;000
Manufacturing cost 8,000 8,250
ECL manufactures. 15,000.|-phone casés-for its AE during the year. Please:calculate the arm's:length price
of each I-phone cases and required adjustment.
Solution 6:
Details of the Gross Profit Margin are as follows:
[Particulars 1৮০৮ 1০০৮ |
Selling price 12,000 13,000
Less: Manufacturing cost: 8,000: 8,250
4,000 4,500
Total Cost 8,000 8,500
Calculation .of ALP is as follow:
Total Cost. 8,000
Add: Arm's length Mark Up @53°% 4,240
Adjusted Arm's Length Price 12246]
Selling Price to AE 12,000
Total Transfer Pricing adjustment 3,600,000
Profit Split Method
Question 7:
Page | 424

Kevlin Private Limited of India sells all of its manufactured goods to Kevlin Private Bangladesh Limited
(AE of KPL India) and after further processing KPL (Bangladesh) sells those products to'the:customers all
over Bangladesh.
Profit & Loss Statement of KPL (India) and KPL (Bangladesh)
KPL KPL
Particulars (India) (Bangladesh)
$700
$ (10) $(65)
Manufacturing costs $ (15) $ (20)
Gross Profit
Research & Development $.(15) $ (10)
Operating expenses $ (10) $ (10)
Operating Profit
It is established, for both. jurisdictions, that third-party comparable manufacturers. without unique and
valuable intangibles:earn a return on manufacturing costs, (excluding purchases) of 10% (ratio of net profit
to the direct and indirect costs of manufacturing).
Recalculate Arm's length profit of KPL (India):and KPL (Bangladesh) using profit split method.
Solution 7:
Calculation of residual profit:
KPL (India) | KPL
Particulars (Bangladesh) Total
Total operating profit earned by KPL (India $
& Bangladesh) 5:00 $ 5.00. | $ 10.00
Less: Return.on manufacturing costs $
(Manufacturing cost:x: 10%) 1.50 $ 2.00 $ 3.50
Residual profit $ $ 3.00 $ 6.50
3.50

Percentage of Proportion of R&D Expense
(R&D expense / Total R & D Expense:x
100%) 60% | 40%
Calculation of Residual Profit (Operating Profit) $ 5.40 $
4.60
(Return on Manufacturing cost + Proportion of R&D Expense X Total Residual Profit)
Adjusted Profit & Loss Statement.of KPL (India). and KPL (Bangladesh)
KPL (India KPL (Bangladesh)
$55.40 $100.00
(10.00) 5165.40
Manufacturing costs $ (15.00) $ (20.00).
Gross Profit $ 30.40 $ 24:60
৪0500) ৪ 0000]
Page:| 425

Operating expenses $ (10.00) $. (10.00)
Operating Profit $ '5.40 $ 4.60
Transaction Net.Margin Method (TNMM):
Question 8:
Tiger IT Bangladesh Limited’ (TIL-BD) procures software (Data X) from Gameloft Singapore Limited at
BDT 1,500. The company incurs promotional expense of BDT 600 and sells the software to its customer
at BDT 3,000.
Tiger IT Bangladesh Limited (TIL-BD) also procures its software (Foto Z) from Tiger IT UK Limited (TIL-
UK) at BDT 700. The company incurs promotional.expense.of BDT 200 per software:and sells the software
at.BDT 1,200 to its customer.
Please find the arm's length price for the software assuming the difference in product is immaterial.
Solution 8:
Computation of Net Profit Margin
BDT 3,000
Less: Purchase price. BDT 1,500.
Less: Promotional Expense BDT600
Net Profit BDT 900
Net Profit Margin Ration (% of sale)
Calculation of ALP is as follow:
[Particulars Amount ঢা
Sales price:of Foto Z (A) BDT 1,200
Net Profit Margin Ratio
Net Profit Margin (B) [A X Net Profit Margin: Ratio] BDT 360
Total Cost (A-B) BDT 840
Less: Promotional Expense BDT 200.
Adjusted Arm's Length Price per software BDT 640
Price Paid to AE BDT 700
Transfer pricing adjustment per software BDT 60
Question 9:
A company (ABC. Ltd) has received interest fréé loan of BDT 15,000,000 from 1৪ parent (XYZ Ltd) as
working capital on 10 December 2021. The company repaid the loan on 01 May 2022. The financial year
of the:company is from July 2022 to June.2023.
Now, the: group CFO is in the view that, the TP return is not réquired to file as the there: is no closing
balance in the Financial statements. He approached your tax partner for opinion on whether this need to
be file or not.
You are required to prepare a memorandum for the tax partner for the above queries..
Solution 9:
Page | 426

To,
Tax Partner.
ABC & Co:
Chartered Accountants
Subject: Memorandum on filling of Statement of International Transactions under Section 107 EE
Dear’Sir,
As per Section 233 (5), international transaction means in the nature of Purchase, Sale, Lease of tangible
of intangible property, provision of services, lending mionéy, borrowing of money between associated
enterprises.
As the ABC Limited (subsidiary) received interest free loan from XYZ limited (Parent) it falls under
intérnational transaction for Which TP return must be filed as per section 107EE. Though there is fio closing
Balance: but as the transaction incurred during this year, it must be: reported under Part-]| Interest Free
loan, advances and investments.
However, as the transaction for the year is less than BDT 30,000,000, ‘so no ‘certificate from a qualified
chartered accountant is required. Also, there is no need to mention transfer pricing method rather it-can
be considered only as disclosure.
Question 10:
A German based research institute.developed a vaccine for protecting the children from harmful.seasonal
flue: which was not developed by any other entity in the world. The German based institute will supply the
vaccine to Bangladesh at fixed value of USD 250, the rate is the same for the supply to other country by.
the institute.
Now, the entity wants to-open a.subsidiary in Bangladesh and approaches your firm for the:transfer pricing
implication and method.
You are required to prepare a memorandum for the tax partner for the above queries..
Solution 10:.
To,
Tax Partner.
ABC & Co.
Chartered Accountants
Subject: Memorandum on Transfer Pricing Method and Implication for newly developed vaccine
Dear Sir,
As per section 238, the subsidiary need to file the TP return for purchasing the. vaccine ‘from its parent
based in Germany.
In case of determining the transfer pricing method, we.need to take into the fact that, this is a very unusual
product (Vaccine) and the vaccine is being sold by the institute to all other countries at a fixed’ price. As
the subsidiary will act as only as a distributor and resale the product, the Transfer pricing method would
be “Comparable uncontrolled Price” TPM code: 01”.
Also, as the vaccine is supplied to all the countries ofthe: world at the same: rate. ($250), there will not be
any transfer pricing adjustment.

Page: | 427

Question No.11:

ideal Bangladesh Ltd (“Ideal BD” or “the. Company”) is a 100% owned subsidiary of Ideal World
Limited, a German conglomerate renowned for its famous consumer goods: across the world.
Ideal BD is-a public limited company but not listed with any stock:exchanges in Bangladesh and
has been engaged in manufacturing and marketing of consumer goods under the global brands
of Ideal World Limited for the last 10 years. Accordingly, Ideal BD manufactures certain
prodticts in Bangladesh (“maniifacturing unit”) atid imports some other finished products from
its sister concerns (associated of Ideal BD) across the world, which it. markets without doing
any: further modification (“Trading unit’).
For the year ended on 31 December 2022 (A/Y 2023-24), following extracts were relevant for
computing income tax for Ideal BD /

Taka
| _Depreciationasperbook CT ০০
| _-Royaltyexpenses— | 90
business purpose

In addition to the.above, following information were also made available relevant for its. tax
assessment:

1) Turnover of Tk. 4,100 crore comprises of Tk. 3,500 crore on account:of manufacturing unit and,
Tk. 600 crore on account of Trading unit.

2). Net profit after tax.as per'statement of accounts was Tk. 502.95 crore, out-of Which Tk. 9.75

_ crore. represent net profit of Trading unit.

3) Profit before tax posted by Ideal BD comprises Tk. 645 crore from Manufacturing unit and Tk.
55 crore from Trading unit.

4) The-Company maintains an unfunded gratuity scheme for its permanent employees and for the
- 2021 it created a provision of Tk. 8 crore, while Tk. 2 crore were paid to.3 outgoing employees
5) The.motor vehicles were. sedan car, having antique value, acquired two-years back.at a price. of

‘Tk. 2.5 crore, which were sold. at Tk. 3.5 crore, although the written down value was much
lower. The Company follows a straight-line method and depreciates its motor vehicle @.20%
rate.

6) All thé capital gains Were reinvested in new plant & machineries of the Company in 2021 itself
‘and the Company has obtained a permission from the tax authority to claim capital gain tax
exemptions. .

7) ForFiscal depreciation following information are available:

i)

otal depreciation (excluding the depreciation of new plant and machinery) as allowed under law
was Tk. 78. crore. Addition to plant & machinery was Tk. 7 crore. As per3' Schedule of the ITA,
.2023 there are normal depreciation allowance @ 20% .and initial depreciation allowance @
25% on plant and machinery cost -

ii)

uring 2021, for the purpose of depreciation allowances, maximium Tk. 25 lac as cost'was
allowed for motor vehicle: not plying for hire.

8) The latest assessed tax (A/Y 2021-22) of the Company was. Tk. 189 crore (Manufacturing unit
Tk. 175 crore and Trading Unit Tk. 14 crore). Because of fulfilling certain conditions of an

Page | 428

exemption SRO, the Company was eligible for a rebate-of 20% on profit of the Manufacturing
Unit, which will continue this year-as Well. The standard tax rate applicable for the Company in
the latest.assessed tax was 30%, which is now 27.5%.or 30% based on a changes made in the
last Finance:Act 2023. The Company paid due advance tax u/s 154 following its last assessed
income.

9) The Gross Profit ratio between Manufacturing and Trading unit was 92%:8%, which was
allowed by tax authority to allocate common business profit between these two units.

10):At port point the Company deposited Tk. 100.crore under Manufacturing unit and Tk. 20 crore
Under Trading unit:as advance tax, which Were considered while-depositing the advance tax for
the: Company u/s 154. ,

11) From a data set:acceptable by the Bangladesh taxing authority if the lowest value of
comparable. operating profit at 30" percentile is 10%, highest value of comparable operating
profit at 70" percentile is 15% and median value comparable operating profit is 13%, state
whether any adjustment is required to determine the arm’s length profit.for Trading unit. The
operating profit % of trading unit was 9.17% of turnover (consider TNMM will provide the most
reliable measure of an arm's length result)

Requirements:

a) Compute total income after determining adjustment if any required under transfer pricing
regulations for the Trading unit; and

b) Compute net tax liability considering the advance tax already deposited by the company for the

relevant assessment year, the:income year being the year ended on 31st December 2022
Solution 11 (a & b):
Ideal Bangladesh Limited
‘Computation: of Total Income“and Net Tax.Liability
AsSessment year 2023-24 (income year ended on.31 December 2022)
: Not Taka in.
e crore
A___ Income from Business or Profession:
Profit before-tax:as per statement of profit:and loss and, comprehensive income. 700.00
Less Accounting gain on‘sale:of fixed assets:for separate. 4
: consideration 7:00
693.00
Add: Fiscal gain on sale of fixed.assets 1 0.38
693:38
Add: Inadmissible:expenses as per provision of law:
Accounting depreciation and impairment. loss.for separate consideration: 60.00
Gratuity provision (unfunded) 8.00
68.00
761.38
Less Admissible expenses, as. per provision of law:
Fiscal depreciation 2. 81.06
Gratuity amount paid to'the‘outgoing:employees 2.00
83.06
‘Total Income‘from Business or Profession 678.32:
Page | 429

Allocation of business:income between manufacturing unit (other than section 163) and trading
unit (section 163).on:the basis on gross profit ratio:
. Unit ‘Ratio Amount .
Maniufacturing (other than section:163) ১১০৫ ০59
Trading (section 163) 8:00% 54.27.
Total Business income 678 3
B Capital gains:
From:sale:of Motor vehicle 0.20 1
Less: Exemption for investment in Plant:& machinery-within one-year of disposal (0.20)
From sale:of Land property 5.00 5.00
0 Separate business income-to be taxes. u/s, 56:
Inadmissible expenses U/s 55.of the ITA, 2023 4 50:70
D ‘Transfer pricing adjustment’as per statementiof international transaction U/s'238.of ITA 6: 23:00
Total Income (A+B+C+D)[Requirement 2(a)(i)] 757.02
Tax Liability/Payable
Business income from manufacturing undertaking (other than-section 163):
Tax:payable @30%:on Tk:624.05 187:2
Less: Tax rebate:@20% on manufacturing profit as:per exemption SRO 37:44 449.78
Income from 163:.
Tax payable @30% on Tk.54.27 16.28
Analysis of minimum tax under section 163:
Tax payable on regular business:income (@30% on Trading 16.28
profit) গা
Tax.deduction:under'section 120 considered as minimum tax 20 20.00
(Actual tax payable or TDS the higher one)
Capital gains:
. oo .
Tax:payable @15%:on Tk:5 0.75
Income from Other Sources:
Tax payable @30%-on Tk.50.7 15.21
Adjustment from transfer pricing as per statement of international transaction u/s 238 of.ITA,-2023
= ne 0, ; . লে
Tax payable @30%-on Tk:23 6.90
192.64
Less: Tax paid
Tax deducted at:source:
Other'than section 163 of the ITA,'2023 80:00
Section 163 of the ITA, 2023 (TDS under'section -
120) 20.00
100.00
.Advance.tax’ paid u/s:173 5 75.50
175:50
Balance. Tax to. be. deposited:u/s 173 of the. ITA; 2023, [Requirement'2(a)(ii)] ATA
Note:1 Gain on sale of Motor Vehicle As per book As per Tax
Gost of acquisition 2.50 0.50
Page | 430

Ratio of actual cost of acquisition vs Tax cost of চু
‘acquisition 20%
Sale value: 3.50 0.70
‘Written down value. 1.50 0:32
Total gain 2.00 0.38
Split: ৷। ৰা 7
Capital gain (salé value exceeding cost of acquisition) 1.00 0.20
Balance: Revenue gain 1.00 0.18
Total gain _ 2.00 0.38 |
Note: রর
2 Depreciation allowances as per Tax
Total depreciation other than Plant & machinery 78:00
Depreciation. allowances on Plant & Machinery:
Addition. in 2021 7.00
Less: Excluded benefit on capital gain 0.20
6.80
Depreciation (Normal 20% + initial ;
25%) 3.06
Total Depreciation allowances as per Tax law _ 81.06
Note: Royalty disallowances as per section 55(e) of the
3 ITA; 2023 ; রা .
Royalty amount claimed in the financial statement 90.00
Admissible Royalty (10% of disclosed profit Tk. 502.95 crore). 50.30
lIradmissible amount _ 40.70
Note: a ; না
4 Separate business Income to be taxed u/s 56 of ITA, 2023
Inadmissible excess perquisite u/s
55(d) a 10.00
Inadmissible Royalty expenses u/s 5506) (Note:3) 40.70
50:70
Note:
5. Calculation of Advance Tax
Assessed income based on latest Assessed Rate Assessed
assessment income applicable tax
Manufacturing unit 625.00 28% 175.00
Trading Unit 40.00 — 35% __ 14.00
Total 665.00 189.00
Assessed Rate Advance
Advance tax for current A/Y income applicable Tax
Manufacturing unit 625.00 26% 162.50
Trading Unit 40.00 33% _ 13.00 .
Total 665.00 175.50
Tax paid at port point 100.00
Page | 431

Amount to be deposited u/s: 154 of the. ITA, 2023 75.50
Note: Manufacturing tax rate has arrived at 30% less 20% rebate allowed
Note: Transfer pricing adjustment:as per statement. of international transaction u/s 238 of
6 ITA, 2023
Operating profit of the company is 9.17% of turnover, which does not fall within the arm's
length of 10% to 15%. Hence to arrive at the arm's length operating profit, we have to
consider the median value of the data set acceptable to Tax authority. The median value
of the comparable operating profits for 2021 is 14% of turnover. Therefore, the income of
Trading unit for 2021 is to be increased to 13% of turnover..Accordingly, the amount to be
‘added as.adjustment is ‘as ‘follows:
Operating profit at 13% ‘of turnover of Trading unit (600 crores X 13%) 78.00
Operating profit declared by the. company (@9.17% of turnover) _ 55.00
Adjustment required 23.00
) Question No.12:
Expo Ltd. is a foreign subsidiary company of BGD. Ltd. The Company sells air conditioners to Expo Ltd.
at a price of Tk. 40,000 each for sale to its. dealers in Vietnam. In other States, BGD Ltd. is directly
élling to their dealers. ৪0710 45,000 with a Warranty of two year (Tk. 3,500 for each air conditioner).
Expo Ltd. does not offer such warranty. Quantity sold to Expo Ltd. is 10,000 units and to dealers of
BGD Ltd. is 5,000 units. Discuss, the method to be. applied ‘to arrive at the Arm’s, Length Price (ALP)
and compute the ALP. How is the assessment of BGD Ltd. going ‘to: bé affected?
Solution 12:
Expo Ltd. and BGD Ltd. are associated enterprise as Expo Ltd is subsidiary of BGD Ltd. Comparable
product (Air Conditioner) is sold to dealers (Uncontrolled transactions). Hence, in given circumstances
Comparable Uncontrolled Price (CUP) Method for determining arm’s length price can be applied.
Amount (Tk.)
Sale price charged to Dealers of BGD Ltd. 45,000
Less cost of warranty included in price 3,500.
Arm's length price 41,500
Actual price paid by Expo Ltd. to BGD Ltd. 40,000
Difference per unit 1,500 1,500
Addition required to be. made. in the computations. of the total income of BGD Ltd. 15,000,000
1500 x 10;000 units
Tk. 15,000,000 isto. be shown as adjustment for Arm’s: length price for‘international trarisaction. u/s:
235.
Page | 432

SWS WN রণ এ
BSS REE ২ ২ ices] সমস সস সম
SNE কি ৯২২ SNES Se pS Rn ga Ey EO
Chapter 28
Refunds
Introduction,
Examination context
Topic list
: TT Direct refund a — . Tt নো
28.2 | Entitlementto refund eee
| 28.3 | Claim of refund for deceased or disabled persons : দা
| 28.4 | Correctness of assessment.hot'to be questioned eee
128.5 | Refund on the basis of appeal order eee
Form of claim and limitation ee
| 28.7 Adjustment.of refund against ‘tax. eee
([introduction )
Learning objectives.
দ Recognize the requirement to: issue refund voucher
দ Define the entitlement of refund.
দ — Recognize the. claim of refund for deceased or disabled persons.
দ Define the refund on the: basis of orders in appeal
দ Calculation of intereston delayed refund
« Define. the adjustment of refund against tax
Practical significance
When .any ‘amount of tax is réfundable as per tax law the DCT shall issue: refund voucher unless stich
refund is:set off against tax. The refund shall be entitled when the amount of tax paid exceeds the properly
chargeable tax or when income of one person: included in income. of another person.
Where through death, incapacity, insolvency, liquidation or other cause, a person, is unable to claim or
receive any refund due to him, the legal representative shall be. entitled that refund. In case of refund on
the basis of orders in appeal, the amount is payable within 30 days. Interest is also payable if there is
Page:| 433

delay. in payment of refund more than 2 months from the claim of refund. In certain cases, the refundable
amount can be adjusted against:tax..

Stop and think
Excess payment of tax is refundable or adjustable against tax. Do you think.that refundable tax can be
received or adjusted even in some cases with interest?

Working context
Excess payment of tax by a’ taxpayer may be incurred in many ways. Refund of such tax is a legal right
for that‘taxpayer. Accountants support to calculate and claim the refundable tax on behalf‘and in favour of
the clients that is.sometime very essential.
Detailed knowledge on the refund procedures:can help accountants. to provide this.service to their clients.

Examination context

Exam requirements

In the examination, candidates may be required to:

a Identify the réquirement to issue réfund voucher.

8 Mentioned who are entitled to refund..

a Recognize the.claim of refund for deceased or disabled persons.

a Recognize the refurid.on the basis:of appeal order.

0 Calculate interest on delayed refund.

a Mention how refund is adjustable: against tax.

Question practice

For question practice on these topics, go to the:suggested answers covering this chapter.

‘Examiner's comments on how students should tackle questions
Candidates have historically prepared well for this. area of the syllabus. Better prepared candidates are
able to perform well in the more difficult areas.

28.0 REFUNDS
Section overview

> DCT shall issue refund voucher when any amount of tax is refundable unless such refund is

adjustable against tax.
> Legal representative of a disable person shall be entitled to get refund. — ;
=> Refund on thé basis of appeal order is payable within 60 days of recéiving such 16360, order‘from
the DCT.
=> Interest is also payable in case of delay in payment. of:refund.
> Refundable amount can be adjusted against'tax..
28.1 Direct refund : Section 215(3):
lrrespective of any provisions within this law or-any other legislation, in cases whereia return is filed under
universal self-assessment, the DCT shall execute electronic transfers for any refunds resulting from the
return processing carried out-under the universal self-assessment method.,
Page | 434

28.2 Entitlement to refund: Section 224
Where a person can demonstrate to the DCT that: the:tax;amount paid by him or on his behalf or deemed
to be paid by him or on his behalf, for a.given year exceeds the rightful amount chargeable under the Act
for that specific year, is eligible to receive.a refund for the surplus amount.
In a.situation where income:of a person is encompassed within the total income of another person through.
any provision of the Act,.solely the latter person shall be entitled to claim a refund concerning that particular
income.
28.3 Claim of refund for deceased or disabled persons: Section 227

Where through death, incapacity, insolvency, liquidation or other cause, a person, is unable to claim or
receive any refund due to him, his legal representative, or the trustee, guardian or receiver, as the case
may be, shall entitled to claim or réceive such refund for the benefit of such person or estate.

28.4. Correctness of assessment etc. not to be questioned: Section 228
In any claim for refund under‘this: chapter, it shall not be open to’the claimant to question the corréctriess
or validity of any assessment.or other matter which has become final and conclusive:or'to ask‘for‘a review
of the:same, and the claimant shall not be entitled to-any relief'on any such issue raised except refund of
the tax paid in excess.

28.5 Refund on the basis of appeal order: Section 229
Where, as-a result of any order passed iri appeal or other proceeding under this Act, refurid of any amourit
becomes due to an assessee, the DCT shall refund the amount, unless set off against tax or treated as
payment of tax as per provisions of section 225 to the assessee, within 60 days from the date on which
the refund has, become due without his having to make any claim in that behalf.

28.6 Claim for refund: Section 226:
If a refund arises through legal proceedings or any official order, and it is not electronically transferred to
the taxpayer's bank account, the taxpayer has the option to claim the said refund ‘according to the
prescribed procedure.

Rule-36: Form of Application for-Réfund of Income Tax
তে n সে aetna Of Henne hereby declare that my total income. computed in
accordance with the provisions of the Income. Tax.Act, 2023, during the income year ending on relating to
the assessment year ------------------------------------amounted to taka, -----------------------~----------that the total
income tax chargeable in respect of such total, income is taka --------------------- and that the total amount
of income-tax paid or‘treated as paid under sections 150 is: taka --------------------=-
|, therefore, request that a refund of taka: ----------------------------may be ‘allowed to me:
~(Signaiurey
| hereby declare that |:am resident./ non-resident'in Bangladesh and that what is stated in this application
is correct.
‘Date------------=---=------=----
~(Signaturey
Page:| 435

Notes:
1. The application should be accompanied by return of inconie in the specified form Unless it has already
been filed.
2. Where the application is made in respect of interest on securities, the application: shall be. accompanied
bythe. certificates required under section 145.
3. The application for refund shall be made to the DCT of the Circle in which the applicant is chargeable
directly to tax, otherwise’ to. the DCT under whose jurisdiction the applicant resides, unless there is a
__ ‘special Refund Circle, in'which case the application shall be made to the DCT of that Circle. রা ৷
4. A non-resident person shall make his application for réfund to the DCT who has jurisdiction over him. If
the non- resident tax-payer is assessed through a statutory agent, the application for refund shall be made
_ to the DCT who has jurisdiction over that statutory agent. a
5. Thé application may be presented by the applicant in person of through a duly authorized agent or may
be sent by registered post.
28.7 Adjustment of refund against tax: Section 225
Where: according to, the provisions. in this,Act, the Income Tax‘Ordinance; 1984, the Gift-tax Act, 1990, ior
the Wealth-tax Act,:1963, there:is a‘determined refund;or repayment owed to a:person, the’entirety ora
Pportion‘of the owed :amount.might be’offset against'the: taxiliability-of that,person as: per-this"Act.
Question
A refund of tax becomes due to an asSessee on reduction of total income in appeal filed by him, but the
DCT does not take any action to make the refund. What are the remedies open to the assessee?
Answer
1. The aggrieved assessee can file appeal to the AUCT .or the Commissioner (Appeals) against the refusal
of the DCT to make the refund. .
2. Thé assesseée.can, apply to the DCT to adjust the refUndable amount against his arréar tax demand, if any,
‘u/s 226 of the Income Tax Act; 2023.
Page | 436

ডোজ গজ AS (na Cx
ই ১২২ ও ২ ২ সপ ED ree
Chapter 29
Appeal, Tribunal, reference, Revision and ADR
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list
29.1 | First appeal টো
| 29.2; Appeal against the order of Tax Recovery Officer (TRO) OE
: 29:3 | Second appeal to Taxes Appellate Tribunal ee
| 29.47 Reference application to the High Court Division of the Supreme Court |
_ 285 | Summary of appeal and reference eee
29811২64900 power of the Commissioner of Taxes — a —Sd
29.7 | Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) eee
Self-assessment questions
“Introduction .
Learning objectives
দ Identify the conditions and procedures for different appeal, tribunal and references.
s Mention the different-orders of tax authorities for which an assessee may be aggrieved.
® Define various appeals to the different appeal authorities in different situations.
দ — Identify the decisions or results of appeal come from different appeal stages.
Practical significance
An assessee not being a company'or an assessee being a company in respect of certain cases:aggrieved
by any order of a DCT or IJCT can appeal to the AJCT or the.Commissioner (Appeals) against:such order.
Appeal can also be made-to‘the AJCT against the order of TRO.
An assessee may appeal to the Taxes Appellate Tribunal if he is:aggrieved by an order of an AJCT or the
Commissioner (Appeals). The Taxes Appellate Tribunal may, after giving both the parties an opportunity
of being heard, pass such orders on the appeal as it thinks fit. The Taxes Appellate Tribunal may'dispose
of the.appeal if the appellant does not appear when the appeal is called for hearing.
Page:| 437

The .assessee 01 the Conirissioner may refer any question. of law .atising out of the order of the Taxes
Appellate. Tribunal communicated to him to the High Court Division. The High Court Division of the
Supreme Court. shall pass such orders as are necessary to dispose of the case in conformity with the
judgment delivered by it.
For the appeal and reference, the appellant need to comply ‘with some: conditions and maintain some
procedures to make his. appeal valid.
Stop and think
Thé aggtieved parties. in certain cases, can appeal to the: different appeal authorities. Do you think that the
appeal and reference procedures are enough to get the proper judgment by the aggrieved parties under
the Act? .
Working context
The appeal and reference procedure under tax law is the most complex and risky area for the aggrieved
parties. The assessee beirig a client is sometimes very much required the service from an accountant.
Accountants being ‘tax expert can provide the practical and useful advice and service to their clients in
such. cases..
Detailed and reasonable Knowledge on appeal and reference can help accountants to provide practical
service to their-clients in this regard.
| Examination context |
Exam requirements
Inthe examination, candidates may be réquired to:
দ — Identify the conditions for appeal made by the assessee against order of the DCT.
দ Recognize the procedures of appeal before AJCT or the:Commissioner (Appeals).
দ ‘Demonstrate the decision in appeal by the AJCT or the Commissioner (Appeals)..
a Identify the appeal against order of the TRO
দ Define the appeal to the Taxes Appellate Tribunal.
দ" Identify the:disposal of appeal by the Taxes Appellate Tribunal.
« Define the reference to the High Court.Division of the Supreme Court.
দ Mention the decision 00076 High Court Division of the Supreme Court, ; রা
« |deritify the: appeal to the Appellate Division. of the Supreme Court against the judgment of the High
Court Division.
Question practice
For question practice on these topics, go to the suggested answers covering this chapter.
Examiner's comments on how students should tackle questions
Candidates have prepared well for this.area of the syllabus.
29.0 APPEAL AND REFERENCE
Section overview
> There are.different orders of tax authorities by which an assessee:may be aggrieved.
> The aggrieved assessee can appeal to appropriate appeal forum
>. The aggrieved tax authority cari also file.appéal in certain cases.
Page | 438

> Appeal can be filed to different appeal authorities including Taxes Appellate Tribunal
> Appeal can also be preferred to the High Court Division of the Supréme. Court:
> There are:some procedures of filing appeal including time limitation.
> Judgment by the AJCT or the Commissioner (Appeals) or Taxes Appellate Tribunal.
>. The Taxes Appellate Tribunal can also dispose the appeal if the appellant doés not appear when the
‘appeal is called for hearing.
> The High Court Division shall pass such orders as are necessary to dispose:of the case in conformity
with the judgment delivered by it. a 7 oO ৷ a
> The assessee can prefer application to the Alternative Dispute: Resolution (ADR) instead of appeal,
Tribunal.or Higher Court.
a. First appeal: Section 286, 287, 288 & 289
Any taxpayer aggrieved by the order of any income tax authority regarding the following matters may
appeal to the respective appellate tax authority ie., Commissioner-of Taxes. (Appeals) and Appellate Joint
Commissioner of Taxes—
(a) assessment of income;
(8) coriputation of tax liability.or refund:
(c) ‘set off or carry forward of loss;
(৫). imposition of penalty or interest;
(6) charge and computation of surcharge-or any other sum;
(f) credit of tax;
(g) payment of a refund.
Appeal in‘the:following cases shall be made to the Commissioner of Taxes (Appeals):
(a) appeal by a company;
(8). appeal against.an order'under section 213; | ৰা রা
(c) appeal against any order of adjustment:or penalty involving international transactions.
No appeal in respect of an income-which is computed as a share of the taxed income. Further, no appeal
where return has filled but tax has: not been paid under section 173 and where return has. not filled and
10% of tax as determined by DCT has not been paid. However, appeal may be granted if tax paid before
the filing of appeal with sufficient reasons.
Appeal under section 286 shall be filed in a prescribéd form and manner along with a fee of BDT 200 and
filed within 45 days from the date of serving demand notice in relation to any-assessment or penalty, and
in other cases, from ‘the date of an order is. served. However, appellate authority may admit an appeal
after expiry of said period if satisfied by'the reason. for delay.
Appellate. authority shall fix day and place for hearing and give notice to the.appellant.and the DCT. The
appellate authority may allow the appellant'to go into any ground of appeal which was not included earlier
mistakenly, before or at the time of hearing. Appellate authority may enquire-or ask for particulars or direct
further enquiry to be: made by the DCT before:disposing of appeal. Appellate authority shall not admit any
documents-er evidence which was not produced before the DCT unless satisfied with reasons.
Appellate.income tax authority in disposing an appeal, may confirm, reduce, enhance, set-aside or‘annual
the assessment or penalty or pass any: order as he thinks fit. Order of appeal shall be communicated to
the appellant, DCT and Commissioner within 30 days of the date. of passing such order. An appeal shall
be deemed to have. been allowed if Appellate income tax authority fails to make an order‘within 150 days
from the end of the month of filing ‘of appeal.
Question
Can the first appellate authority dismiss an appeal for non-appearance. of the appellant on the hearing
date of appeal?
Page | 439

Answer

The first-appellate authority is not empowered to dismiss an appeal for having the appellant-absent.on the
hearing date. The appellate authority should pass an appellate order on merit after examination. of the
‘assessment records made available by ‘the concerned DCT.

29.2 Appeal against order of Tax Recovery Officer (TRO): Section 290

Any person aggrieved by an order of the TRO under section 217 may, within 30 days from the date. of
service of the order, appeal to the IJCT to whom the. TRO is:subordinate, and decision of the IJCT on such
appeal shall be-final.

29:3 Second appeal: Section 291 and 292

Appeal against the order of AJCT or'thé Commissioner of Taxes (Appeals) as the case maybe filed ‘with
the Taxes Appellate Tribunal.

Such appéal by an asséssee must be filed, withiri 60 days. of the communication of the: appeal order, in
the prescribed form accompanied by a fee of Tk. 1,000. In the case of appeal filed by'an assessee the tax
to be paid. @10% of the amount representing difference between the taxes determined on the basis of the
order of the.AJCT or the:CT (Appeals) and tax payable under section 173.

However, on the.basis of an application filed by the.Assessee, the Commissioner of Taxes of the relevant
Circle of the Assessess, may reduce the requirement of paying such 10% disputed tax if the grounds of
application appears reasonable: to him. Normally such ground can be ‘significant distress/hardship’ for the
‘assesse.

The. DCT can file an appeal to the Taxes Appellate Tribunal with the prior approval of the Commissioner
of Taxes.

Appeal shall be deemed to have been allowed if Tribunal fails to deliver an order'within 180 days from the
end of the month of filing the appeal. However, if an. additional member is. appointment to hear'the case
because of differences of decision by the two members then the period ‘shall be. 240 days.

The Taxes Appellate Tribunal shall communicate its order on the appeal to the assessee and to the
Commissioner of Taxes within. 30 days from the date of such order.

Question

Can the Taxes Appellate Tribunal pass: an order ex-parte for nhon-appearance of the appellant on the
hearing date of appeal?

Answer

If the:appellant does not appear when the appeal is called for hearing, the Tribunal may dismiss the appeal
for default. Ifthe appellant makes on application within 30 days of such order of dismissal, for restoration
of the appeal on the ground that notice of the appeal was not served on: him or that the service was: not
valid in law or that he was, prevented by sufficient cause from appearing on the hearing day and the
Tribunal if satisfied, the order of dismissal shall be vacated and a ‘fresh date of appeal hearing be fixed
and disposed of on merit.

29.4 Reference to the High Court and Appellate Division of the Supreme Court: Section 293, 294
and.295

The assessee or the Commissioner may within 90. days from the: date of receipt of the order of the. Taxes
Appellate Tribunal refer to the High Court Division of the Supreme: Court’ in the prescribed form and
Page | 440

manner, question of law‘arising out of the-order of the tribunal. Provided that no reference by an assessee
shall be entertained unless the assesseéeé has paid the following tax.at-.
a. 15% of the difference between the tax as determined on the basis of the order of the Taxes Appellate
Tribunal and the tax payable under section 173 where ‘tax demand does not exceed one. million taka;
b. 25% of the difference between the taxes as determined on the basis of the order of the Taxes Appellate
Tribunal and the tax payable under:section 173 where tax demand exceeds one million taka.
Provided that the Board may, on an application made in this: behalf, modify or waive, in any case, the
requirement of such payment.
Section 293(3) has specified the documents need to be submitted along with the reference application
submitted to the High Court: Division.
The High Couit Division shall, Upon hearing any case referred to it Under this section, decide the question
of law raised thereby and shall deliver its judgment thereon stating the grounds on which such decision is
founded: The judgment of the Court shall be send to the Registrar to the Appellate Tribunal which’ shall
Pass such orders as aré nécessary to dispose of the case in conformity. with the judgment.
It is important to note that notwithstanding a reference made under section 293, tax shall be payable in
accordance with the assessment made in the case Unless recovery thereof has been stayed by the High
Court Division. Therefore, it shall bé noted that while filing such referefice application by an assessee
should also be made to stay the demand of disputed tax. ,
An appeal shall lie‘to ‘the Appellate division against a judgnient of the High Court Division ifthe High Court
Division certifies that the order to be fit for appeal to the Appellate Division. Provision of the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 relating to the appeals:to the Appellate Division shall so far as may be, apply in regard
to the appeals under Section 295 in the like manner as they apply in the.case of appeals from decrees of
the High Court Division.
29.5 Summary of appeal and reference
A close scrutiny of above:discussions reveals the following situations for easy understanding:
Appeal against the Appeal by Appeal to Time
order of - limit
Tax: Recovery Officer Any person aggrieved Inspecting Joint Within 30
by:an order of the. /Additional days,
TRO Commissioner of
Taxes
Deputy ‘Commissioner Any aggrieved assessee] Appellate Joint Within 49
of Taxes not 69780 ৪ company, /Additional days
Commissioner of
Taxes
Any partner Appellate Joint Within 45
/Additional days
Commissioner of
Taxes
Any aggrieved assessee] Commissioner of Taxes Within 48
being a company (Appeals) days
Inspecting _ any assessee aggrieved. | Commissioner of Taxes Within 49
Joint/Additional (Appeals): days
Gommissioner of Taxes
Page| 441

Appellate Any. assessee or the ‘Taxes Appellate Tribunal Within ০০
Joint/Additional Commissioner of days
Commissioner of Taxes Taxes:
or the Commissioner of
Taxes (Appeals)
Taxes Appellate The asséssee or the High Court Division of the Within 90
Tribunal Commissioner of Supreme Court (for days
Taxes: reference only)
29.6 Revision power of the Commissioner of Taxes: Section 285
An-assessee may also file revision petition before the Commissioner of Taxes within 60 days of receipt
of Order of the DCT or AJGT/AACT, who are subordinate to the Commissioner, on payment. of fees of
taka 200, along with payment of admitted liability. Revision petition will be. deemed to have been allowed
the Commissioner fails to make-an order within 60 days from the date. of filing of the:application for revision.
29.7 Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR): Section 297
Any dispute of an assessee lying with any income tax authority, Taxes Appellate Tribunal or Supreme
Court may be resolved through ADR: Assessee can also go directly to the ADR. against the assessment
or ré-assessment done. by the DCT. If the case in pending an Appeal, Tribunal or Supreme Court then
also. 317) assessee can prefer ADR taking permission from the concerned appeal forum. After obtaining
such permission from the appeal forum, the: appeal (both from assessee and department) shall remain
stayed during the, ADR negotiation process.
Procedure to file application to ADR:
> (four) set of application in the prescribed form shall have to be submitted to the respective appeal
authority.
> Fee Tk. 5oo/- per year is to be paid and copy of which is to be attached with the ADR application.
=> Application for ADR is to be filed within 30 days from the date of receiving demand notice or the date. of
receiving permission from the appeal authority /court as thé case may be.
> Where the case is under process at appeal/tribunal/court, then the copy of permission is to be attached
with the. application of ADR.
> Assessee shall not be eligible for application'to.ADR if he does not'file return of income for the concerned
year and does. not pay tax as per return.
Procedure of disposal by the ADR:

(1) Board will nominate.a facilitator from the panel of facilitators: and convey it'to the applicant, facilitator‘and
the concerned Commissioner of Taxes: Board may, however, change’ the facilitator if any objection raised
bythe. applicant or by the tax department.

(2) Upon receiving the application of ADR, the Facilitator shall forward a copy of the application. to the
respective DCT and call for his opinion on the grounds. of the application and also whether the conditions
of réturn submission and tax: payment as per return by the assessee. have been complied with.

(3) If the DCT fails to give his opinion regarding fulfillment of the:above-mentioned conditions within 5'working
days from receiving the copy, the Facilitator may deem that the conditions thereto have been fulfilled.
Panel of Facilitators:

NBR.Wwill form a panel of facilitators. The following persons shall be eligible for appointment as a facilitator
by the NBR:

> Anexpert retired income tax official not below the ‘rank of Joint Commissioner.

=> Aretired official of judicial service not below the rank of District Judge.

Page | 442

=> AChartered Accountant practiced income tax for a period not less than 8 years.

> A Cost and Management.Accountant practiced income tax for a périod fict less than 10 yéars.

> An Income Tax Practitioner-within the meaning of section 327 and practiced income tax for a period not
less than. 20 years..

> A professional legislative expert not below the rank of Deputy Secretary.

=> A business man expertat income tax law:

Methodology to be followed by the Facilitator to mitigate the dispute:

1. The Facilitator'will notify in writing both the.applicant and the Commissioner of Taxes or the
Commissioner’s Representative to attend the meeting for settlement, of disputes.

2. He may adjourn the meeting from time to time;

3. (3) He may call for records or evidences from the DCT or from the applicant —_ with a view‘to settle the
dispute;

4. Before disposing of the application, he can cause to make such enquiry by any income ‘tax authority.as he
thinks fit.

5. The Facilitator will assist the applicant assessee and the Commissioner’s representative to agree on
resolving the dispute or disputes through consultations and meetings.

6. Dispute may be resolved by an agreement either wholly or in part where. both the parties of the: dispute
accept the points for determination of the facts or laws applicable in the dispute.

7. Where an agreement is reached, either wholly-or in, part, between the assessee and the Commissioner's
Representative, the Facilitator.shall record, in'writing, the-details of the agreement.

8. The recording of evéry such agreement shall desctibe the terms of the agreement including any tax
payable or refundable and any other‘necessary and appropriate matter and the manner in which:any sums
due under the agreement shall be. paid and such other matters as the Facilitator’may,. think fit to make the
agreement effective.

9. The agreement ‘shall be void if it is subsequently found that it has been concluded by fraud or
misrepresentation of facts.

10. The agreement shall be signed by the assessee and the Commissioners Representative and the
facilitator.

11. Where no agreement, whether wholly or in part, is reached or the dispute resolution, 15: ended. in
disagreement between the applicant-assessee and the concerned Commissioner's Representative for
non-cooperation of either of the parties, the Facilitator shall communicate it, in writing recording réeasoris
thereof, within 15 days from the date of disagreement, to the applicant and the Board, the concerned
court/ Tribunal/ appellate authority and income tax authority, as the case may’be, about such unsuccessful
dispute resolution.

12. Where the agreement is reached, recordeéd.and signéd accordingly containing time and modé.of payment
of payable‘dues:or refund, as the case'may be, the Facilitator shall communicate ’the:same to'the:assessee
and the concerned DCT for compliance with the agreement.

13. No agreement shall be deemed to have been reached if the Facilitator fails to make an agreement within.
2 months from the end of the month in which the application is filed.

14. Where there is a successful agreement, the Facilitator shall, communicate the copy of the agreement to
all the parties within 15 days ‘from the date on which the Facilitator and the parties have signed the
‘agreement.

Effect of agreement:

(1) Where an agreement is reached, it'shall be.binding on both the parties and it cannot be challenged in any
authority, Tribunal or court either by the assessee or'by'the department.

(2) Every agreement shall be conclusive as to the matters state therein and no matter covered by such
agreement shall be reopened. .
Limitation for appeal where agreement is not concluded.

(1) Where an agreement is not reached wholly or partially, the assessee may prefer an appeal

Page:| 443

(a) to the. Appellate Joint Commissioner of Taxes or Appellate Additional Commissioner of Taxes or
Commissioner of Taxes (Appeals) .as the case may be, where the dispute arises. against the 01061 of the
(b). to the Taxes Appellate Tribunal where the dispute arises against the order of the Appellate Joint
Commissioner of Taxes. or Appellate Additional Commissioner of Taxes or Commissioner of Taxes
(Appeals), as the case may be; and
(c). to the Court:from where the assessee-applicant has got permission to apply for ADR.
(2) In computing the period of limitations for filing appeal the tinie-elapsed between the filing of the application
‘and the decision: or orderof the-ADR.shall be excluded.
Fees to. be paid to Facilitator
The facilitator is: entitled to receive fees from both the assessee and the Govt. The quantum of fees is to
be computed in the following manner:
50% of fee is to be paid by
20% of disputed tax the assessee or Whichever is lower
Tk.50,000/-. but not less than, থ10
Tk.5,000/- 50% by the Govt. or \ Govt. | 7
approved agericy within 30 days from resolving the. dispute.
Self-assessment questions
(a) What are the various Income Tax Appellate Authorities under ITA, 2023? _ Oo
(6) What aye ‘the: time. limits and relaxation theréof, if-any, in respect of the following matters undér the ITA,
~ 2023? .
|)Filing ofappeal to the AJCT u/s. 286;
ii) Filing of appeal 'to the Commissioner of Taxes (Appeals) u/s:286;:
iii) Filing of appeal to the Taxes Appellate Tribunal u/s. 291;
iv) Filing of reference.application to the High. Court.Division and appeal to the Appellate Division of the
_ Supreme Court u/s. 293,294 and 295. -
(c) Discuss the provisions rélating to service of notice u/s. 335 of the IT Act.
(d) Differentiate between question of fact and question of law?
(6) “Taxes-Appellate Tribunal is the highest fact-finding Authority” - Do you agree with this statement?
(00: Whatis the procedure to file application to the ADR?
(g) Time limits have been prescribed in sections 289 and 292 to dispose: of appeals filed with the AJCT/CT
and Appellate Tribunals, respectively. However, no time limit.has been prescribed to dispose of reference
(0০ 076 High Court Division and Appeal. to the Appellate Division under sections: 293, 294 and 295. What
‘could be the reason for not giving any time limits in sections 293, 294 and 295.
Page | 444

(To eke ides ০. 2S দা]
Chapter 30
Ethics:
([Contents
Introduction
Examination context
Topic list es
Fundamental principles |
30.2 1 Threat and safeguards framework ।
30.3 | Ethical conflict resolution eee
30.4 | Disclosure of information,
30.5 ৷ Conflict of interest ,
30.6 | Basic principles.of taxation work রা ৷ ৷ ৷ ৷_।
30.7 | Tax authorities’ errors
30.8 § Anti-money laundering
| 30.9 Tax evasion Vs. tax avoidance Oe
[ Introduction ,
Learning objectives
Identify the guidance: given in the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants in relation to tax
practice with regard to:
e Identify ethical issues arising from tax work undertaken, explain the relevance and importance of
these issues and provides guidance in given scenarios
e Differentiate between tax avoidance.and tax evasion
০ Judge when to refer mattersfor specialist help
Page:| 445

Practical significance
Belonging toa professional body requires adherence to a code of ethics.and have had claims for breaches.
of confidentiality. This is part of what differentiates.a Chartered Accountant from unqualified :accountants.
Clients, members of the public, and the government recognize that we are required to.adhere to exacting
standards and so expect;a certain standard of behavior from us.
Money laundering has been a major problem in the past.and as part of new laws designed to combat this,
professionals are required to participate in its prevention by reporting certain suspicions relating to the
proceeds of crime.
Stop and think
Accountants have been penalized for non-compliance with the Code of Ethics. Even in‘the:short time, that
the anti-money 18017061170 regulations have existed, accountants have been prosecuted. It.is essernitial
that professional accountants should act:ethically in all of their work.
What sort-of questions-should you ask.a potential client apart from ‘the obvious ones? Should you always
do what the client wants whether you agree or not?’
Working context
Ethical considerations underpin all of your studies as well as your work ‘experience: You will often make
ethical decisions without even realizing it, but sometimes you may find yourself in a quandary and be
unsure: how to act. This is when the Code of Ethics will be of assistance. You need to know what to look
out for and how to act. You should always take particular care in relation to client confidentiality; not always
an easy task.
Syllabus links
The topics covered in this. chapter are essential knowledge for the whole of your Taxation studies. They
will ensure that advicé and communication is appropriate and in keeping with the requirerients of the
ICAB.
[Examination context |
Exam requirements
In the examination, students may. be required to:
e Apply the five fundamental principles to 01461) scenarios
e Determine safeguards to be put in place when threats are made to the fundamental principles
e Advise on the ethical resolution of'conflicts
e Give appropriate guidance relating to conflicts-of interest and money laundering
Question practice:
For question practice on ‘these topics, go to the end of this manual covering this chapter
30.1 Fundamental Principles
Section overview
> The International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) has: produced a Code of Ethics for professional
accountants (IFAC Code).
Page | 446

=> ICAB has adopted and published IFAC Code of Ethics for |CAB Members.
> The IFAC Code aims to ensure high quality ethical standards for use by professional accountants around
the world.
> Part A of the IFAC Codes (the Codes) establishes the fundamental principles of professional ethics for
accountants..
Definition.
Professional accountant: A member of the ICAB.
The Codes require a professional accountant to comply with the following five fundamental principles:
«Integrity
দ Objectivity —
« Professional compétefice and due-care
# Confidentiality
«= Professional behavior
The purpose of this chapter is to provide background information which will assist your understanding of
the framework of the Bangladesh taxation system, why governments impose tax. and the principles of
taxation.
The Bangladesh taxation system has developed over centuries from the then British India in, 1860 to the
present condition ona piecemeal basis. Successive ruler and governments have changed the taxation
system in accordance with their néed.
Integrity
Definition.
Integrity: Requires all professional accountants to be straightforward and honest in professional and
business relationships.
A. professional accountant should not be associated with any information where he believes that the
‘information:
দ. Contains:a materially false or misleading statement
# Contains statements. or information furnished recklessly _ ;
দ Omits or obscures: information required ‘to. be included where such omission or obscurity would be
misleading
Objectivity
Objectivity: Imposes an obligation on professional accountants not. to compromise their professional or
business judgment because of bias, conflict of interest or the undue influence of others.
Relationships that. bias or unduly influence the professional judgment. of the: professional accountant
should be:avoided..
Professional competence and due care
Professional competence and due care: Require professional accountants to:
Page: | 447

Maintain professional knowledge and skill at the level required to ensure that clients or employers receive
competent. professional sérvice based on current developments in. practice, legislation and techniqués;.
‘and
Act diligently in accordance with applicable technical and professional standards when providing
professional services.
Competent professional service requires competence to be achieved in two phases:
Attainment of professional competerice; and
Maintenance of professional competence, requiring a.continuing awareness and understanding of relevant
issues..
Steps ‘should be taken to ensure that those working for the professional accountant have appropriate
training and supervision.
Any limitations. relating to ‘the service béing provided must.be made clear ‘to cliénts and other Users to
ensure that misinterpretation of facts-or opinions: does not take place.
Confidentiality
Confidentiality: Imposes an obligation on professional accountants to refrain from:
Disclosing outside ‘the firm confidential information acquired as a result of professional and business
relationships without proper-and specific authority or unless there is a legal or professional right or duty
to disclose; and : .
Using confidential information acquired as ৪ result .of professional and business relatioriships to ‘their
personal advantage or the advantage of third parties.
A professional accountant should. maintain confidentiality even in a social environment. The. professional
accountant should be alert to the possibility’ of inadvertent disclosure, particularly in circumstances
involving long association with a business associate or a close or immediate family member:
A professional accountant should also consider the need to maintain confidentiality of information within
the firm. All reasonable steps should be taken to ensure that staff under the professional accountant's
control and persons from, whom advice and assistance is obtained respect the: professional accountant's
duty of confidentiality.
A professional accountant should also maintain confidentiality of information disclosed by :a prospective
client or employer.
The need to comply with the. principle of confidentiality continues even after the end of relationships
between a professional accountant, and a client or employer. When a professional, accountant. changes
employment or acquires a: new client, the professional accountant is entitled to use prior experience. The
professional accountant should not, however, use or disclose any confidential information either acquired
or received as‘a result of a professional or business relationship.
Professional behavior
Professional behavior: Imposes an obligation on a professional accountant to comply with relevant laws
and regulations and avoid any action that may bring discredit to the profession.
This includes actions which a reasonable and informed third party, having knowledge of all relevant
information, would conclude negatively affects the-good reputation of the profession.
Professional accountants should be honest and truthful and should not:
Page | 448

Make exaggerated claims for the services they are able to offer, the qualifications: they possess, ‘or
experience'they have. gained.
Make disparaging references or unsubstantiated comparisons to the work of others
30.2 Threats and safeguards framework
Section overview
> The circumstances in which professional accountants opetaté may give rise to specific threats to
compliance: with the five fundamental principles.
> The Codes provide a framework to help identify, evaluate and respond to these threats.
> The professional accountant is then able to apply safeguards to eliminate the threats or reduce
them to an acceptable level.
=> Asaresult, compliance withthe five fundamental principles is not compromised.
Threats:
Thé professional accountant is obliged to evaluate any threat'as-soon:as he knows, or:should be expected
to know, of‘its existence.
Both qualitative and quantitative factors should be taken into account in considering the significance of the
threat.
Most threats to compliance with the fundamental principles fall into the following categories:
« Self-interest threats, which may occur as a result of the financial or other interests of a professional
accountant or of an immediate or close family member
® Self-review threats, which may occur when a previous judgment needs to be reevaluated by the
professional accountant responsible for that judgment
A Advocacy threats, which may occur when a professional accountant promotes a position or opinion to
the point that subsequent objectivity may be compromised _ . a
« Familiarity threats, which may occur when, because of a close relationship, a professional accountant
becomes too sympathetic to the interests of others
« Intimidation threats, which may occur when a professional accountant may be deterred from acting
objectively by threats, actual or perceived
Safeguards
If a, professional accountant cannot iniplement appropriate safeguards, he should decline or discontinue
the specific professional service involved, or where necessary resign from the client.
Safeguards'that mayeliminate or reduce such threats to.an acceptable level fall into'two:broad categories:
® Safeguards created by the profession, legislation or regulation.
«| Safeguards in the:work environment.
Safeguards created by the profession, legislation or regulation include, but. are not restricted to:
« Educational, training and experience requirements. for entry into the profession
« Continuing professional development requirements
দ. Corporate governance regulations
«Professional standards .
« Professional or regulatory monITAring and disciplinary procedures
# External review by’a legally empowered third party of the reports, returns, communications or ‘information
produced by a professional accountant
Page'| 449

Certain safeguards may increase the likelinood of identifying or deterring unethical behavior. Such
safeguards, which may'be créated by the accounting profession, legislation, regulation or an employing
organization, include, but are not restricted to:

« Effective, well publicized complaints systems operated by the employing organization, the profession ora
regulator, which enable colleagues, employers and members of the public to draw attention to
unprofessional or unethical behavior

« An explicitly stated duty to report breachés of ethical requiréments
The nature of the safeguards to be applied will vary depending on the circumstances. In. exercising
professional judgment, a professional accountant should consider what a reasonable. and informed third
party, having knowledge of all relevant information, including the significance of the threat and the
safeguards applied, would conclude to be: unacceptable.

30.3 Ethical conflict resolution
Section overview
> To-ensure compliance with the fundamental principles a professional accountant may need to resolve a
_ conflict in applying the principles.
> The conflict resolution process. may be formal or‘informal.
=> ln both casés the-same steps are to be followed.
Conflict resolution process:
When initiating either a formal or informal conflict resolution process, a professional accountant ‘should
consider the following five factors:

দ Relevant facts

দ Relevant parties

দ Ethical issues involved

« Fundamental principles related to the matter in question

» Established internal procedures

« Alternative courses of-action
Having considered ‘these issues, the appropriate course of action can be determined which resolves: the
conflict with all or some of the five fundamental principles. If the matter remains unresolved, the
professional accountant should consult with other appropriate persons within the firm for help in obtaining
resolution.

Where a matter involves a conflict with, or within, an organization, a professional accountant should also
consider consulting with those charged with governance of the organization:
It is advisable for the professional accountant to document the issue and details of any discussions held
or decisions taken, concerning that‘issue.
If a significant conflict cannot be resolved, a professional accountant may wish to obtain professional
advice from the relevant professional body or legal advisors, and thereby obtain guidance on ethical and
legal issues without breaching confidentiality.
If, after exhausting all relevant possibilities, the ethical conflict remains unresolved, a professional
accountant.should, where possible, refuse to remain associated with the matter creating the. conflict.
The professional accountant may determine ‘that, in the citcumstances, it is appropriate to withdraw from
the engagement team or'specific assignment, or to resign altogether from the.engagement-or the firm.
Interactive question 1: Ethical conflict resolution [Difficulty level: Exam standard]
Page | 450

Mr. X, a member 0107610/08, is the: reporting accountant.of a pension company. Over the years. he has
developed a.close working relationship with the finance director Mr. Y.
Recently he. has become concerned about the financial controls within the company being overridden by
Mr. Y, with the possibility of substantial funds being withdrawn from the company bank account. Mr. X
discussed this at a formal end of audit. meeting with Mr. Y, who assured him that the issue would be
rectified immediately but that she felt there was no real issue and the controls. were overridden for good
reasons.
Mr. X is not satisfied with the explanations given and wishes to take further steps to resolve the ethical
conilict.
Requirement: Outline the options open to Mr. X
Answer
Mr. X may’first approach the other directors of the company in order to resolve the ethical conflict with Mr.
Y. If this. course of action doés not give. Mr: X sufficient comfort thatthe conflict is resolved he Will have. to
consider going outside the company.
Mr. X may obtain professional advice from the ICAB or the legal advisors, ৪70 thereby obtain guidance:on
ethical issues. without breaching confidentiality. Mr. X.should consider obtaining legal advice to determine
whether there is a requirement to report.
If the:ethical.conflict remains: unresolved, Mr. X should refuse to remain associated with the matter créating
the conflict. He may determine that, in the circumstances, it is appropriate to resign altogether from the
engagement.
30.4. Disclosure. of information
Section overview
> Part A of the Codes contains a section relating to confidentiality.
> The confidentiality section explains when a professional accountant may disclose: information 10 third
parties without threatening the fundamental principle. of confidentiality.
When to disclose
A professional accountant may disclose. confidential information if:
" Disclosure is permitted by law and is authorized by the client or the employer 0 Disclosure is required by
law, for example:
« Production of documents or other provision of evidence in the course of legal proceedings, or
« Disclosure to the appropriate public: authorities of infringements of the law, e.g.
under antimony laundering legislation
দল There is.a professional duty or:right'to disclose, when not prohibited by law:
« To comply with the quality review of a member body or professional body
s To respond to:an inquiry or investigation by:a member body or regulatory body
« To protect'the. professional interests. of a professional accountant in legal proceedings
দ To comply with technical standards and ethics requirements
Factors to consider regarding disclosure
In deciding whether to. disclose. confidential information, professional accountants should consider the
following:
Page| 451.

« Whether the interests of all parties, including third parties whose interests may be affected, could be
harmed if the client or employer consents to. the disclosure of information by the professional accountant:
a Whether all the relevant information is known and substantiated, to the extent. it is practicable to do so..
When the situation involves unsubstantiated facts, incomplete information or unsubstantiated conclusions,
professional judgment:should be. used in determining the type of disclosure to be made, if any
s The type of communication that is expected and to whom it is addressed; in particular, professional
accountants should be satisfied that the parties to whom the communication is addressed are appropriate
recipients
Worked example: Disclosure of information:
You have just.obtained Mr. Jamal as a.client. He:has:a source of income which may or may'not be taxable
depending on his. personal circumstances which are uncertain.
Requirement
Discuss the éthical considerations you must bear in mind when deciding whether to disclose the income
on his tax retums.
Solution
There is a possible legal obligation to disclose the source to Tax Authorities, but the situation is unclear.
You mist. use ‘your professional judgmerit, based on all facts. If disclosure is fiot to be made the exact
reasons for'non-disclosure should be recorded and Mr. Jamal advised of the reason. for nondisclosure.
If you decide that disclosure is required, the client should be notified. If he. does.not-accept the advice, you
‘should decide whether-you can continue to act for Mr. Jamal
Interactive question 2:
You are a Chartered Accountant and working in Y Ltd. (“Company”) as a tax manager. The Company is
engaged in ‘the business: of export of the goods manufactured by it. The bank, through which export
proceeds of Y Ltd. is. réceived, deducts tax at the specified rate from the total export proceeds jin
accordance with the provisions of section 123 of the Income Tax Act, .2023..Export income of Y Ltd. falls
under the scope:of section 163 of the ITA, 2023. Generally, the Company does not have additional income
from. export:as. referred to in section 163 of the ITA, 2023.
In the income:year 2016-17, a warehouse owned by the company was leased out to-another company for
a term of 3 years. Y Ltd. received rent on the warehouse for the income year 2016-17 but no tax. was
deducted at source from the rent paid by the lessee. The management of Y Ltd. is thinking of assessment
of income: of the company for the income year 2015-16 under section 82C of the ITA, 1984, upon
considering the tax collected at source.by'the bank’from the:export proceeds.as minimum tax. In a meeting
with the management'team of Y Ltd. on tax issues, you have been.asked to:consider whether itis: possible
to ignore income from house property so that no demand for additional income'tax:arises. To discuss the
issue further, a meeting would be held next week..
Requirements
(a) Prepare a briefing note as regards tax evasion, tax avoidance and professional ethics to be followed bya
Chartered Accountant rendering ‘taxation services.
(b) Enumerate the. steps should be taken to-deal with unethical request from the management, if any.
Solution
(a) Briefing Note for‘the. Management Team
Page | 452

Subject: Tax Evasion, Tax Avoidance and Professional Ethics to be followed bya Chartered Accountant
rendering Taxation Services. )
Tax Evasion:
Tax evasion is unlawful dodging in tax payments by tax payers. It is a process whereby a person
illegitimatély pays less ‘tax than the law mandates. Tax evasion often entails taxpayers delibérately
misrepresenting the true state of their affairs to the tax authorities: to reduce their tax liability and includes
dishonest tax reporting, suchas declaring less income, profits:or gains than the amounts actually earned,
overstatirig déductions:or suppressing turnover.
Tax Avoidance:
On the other hand, tax‘avoidance.is the process whereby‘a person plans his or'her finances.so.as'to-apply
all exemptions and deductions provided by tax, laws to reduce taxable income. Through tax avoidance, ৪
person takes advantage of all legal, opportunities to minimize his or her tax. Tax avoidance must be
distinguished from Tax Evasion, which is‘the employment of unlawful methods‘to circumvent the payment
of taxes. Tax evasion is a crime; tax avoidance is the legal way to reduce tax burden.
Professional Ethics to be followed by a Chartered Accountant rendering Taxation Service:
A professional accountant rendering taxation service is entitled to put forward the best position in favor of
his. employer provided the service is rendered with professional competence, does not in any way impair
integrity anid objectivity, and is in the opinion of the. professional.accountant consistent with the law. Doubt
may be resolved in favor of the employer if*there is. reasonable support for the position. A professional
accountant should not hold out to an employer the assurance that the tax return prepared and the tax
advice. offered are beyond challenge. Instead, the professional accountant should ensure that the
employér-aré aware of the limitations attaching ‘to ‘tax advice and services so that they:do not misinterpret
an expression of opinion as an assertion of fact. A professional accountant should not be associated with
any return or communication in which there is reason to believe that it:
(i) Contains a false or'‘misleading statement;
(ii) Contains statements or information furnished recklessly or without any real knowledge. of whether they:
are true.or false; or _
(iii) গো or obscures information required. to bé submitted and.such.omission or obscurity Would. mislead the
: revenue authorities.

(b) In light of the aforementioned academic discussion, | will take following steps if there is any Unethical
request from my employer:

(i) J will put my tax advice on record; either in the form of a letter or in a memorandum; while providing the
requested opinions on ignoring/concealing income from house property.

(ii) | will let my employer know the consequences of error/omission/concealment of income as provided in the

income tax laws for the time being in force:and will recommend that:appropriate.disclosure be made to the
revenue authorities:

(iii) If riy employer does not accept’ my suggestion, | will inform them that it is not possible. to act for them in
connection with the: evasion of tax or pertinent return of income.

(iv) | will follow the established policies of Y Ltd. to seek a resolution of such conflict.

(v). If those. policies: do not resolve the ethical conflict, | will bring the problem to the notice, of the next higher
reviewing level such as the Executive Committee, Board of Directors or Shareholders. | will also seek
counseling and advice on a confidential basis with:an independent advisor to ‘obtain an understanding of
possible courses:of action:

(vi) If the ethical conflict still exists, | will consider whether continued association with Y Ltd. in.any capacity is
consistent with professional responsibilities and as a last resort | may have no other recourse on the tax
evasion issue than to resign and to submit an information memorandum to an appropriate representative
of Y'Ltd.

Page:| 453

30.5. Conflicts of interest
Section overview
> Part B of both the IFAC. Code and the ICAEW Code illustrate how the fundamental principles are applied
in certain situations for professional accountants in public practice.
> One of the illustratioris given. in part B contains details relating to. conflicts of interest.
The threat of a conflict of interest
A professional accountant should take reasonable steps to identify circumstances that could pose a
conflict of interest. These. may give rise to threats to compliance with the fundamental principles.
A.conflict may arise. between the firm and the client or between two conflicting clients being managed by
the same firm. For'example, where a firm acts for:
* AClient which has specific interests which conflict with those of the firm;
* Financial involvements between the client and the-firm e.g., where a loan is: made by or'to a client:
* Both a husband and. wife in a divorce:.settlement;
* Acompany and for its directors in their personal capacity; or
* Two competing business
Evaluation of threats includes consideration as to whether the professional accountant has any business
interests. or relationships with the client or a third party that could give rise to threats. If there are other
than clearly. insignificant, safeguards should be considered and applied as necessary.
Safeguards
Depending upon the circumstances giving rise to thé conflict, safeguards should ordinarily include the
professional accountant in public practice:
« Notifying the client of the firm's business interest or activities: that may represent a ‘conflict of interest
দ Notifying all known relevant parties that the professional. accountant is acting for two or more parties. in
réspect of a matter where their respective interests are in conflict
® Notifying the client that the professional accountant does not act exclusively for any one client in the
provision. of proposed services (for example, in a particular market sector or with, respect to a specific
service)
In:each case the professional accountant should obtain the.consent of'the relevant parties to:act.
Where a professional accountant has requested consent from a client'to act for another’party (which may
or may not be an existing client) and that consent has been refused, then he must not continue to act for
one of the parties in the matter giving rise to the conflict of interest.
Thé following additional safeguards-should also be considered:
s The use.of separate engagement teams _ .
« Procedures. to prevent access. to information (e.g. ‘strict physical separation of such teams, confidential
and secure data filing)
৭. Clear guidelines for members of the engagement. team on issues of security and confidentiality
The 056 of confidentiality agreements signed by’employeés and partners of the firm
« Regular review of the application of safeguards: by a senior individual not. involved with relevant -client
engagements.
Page |454

"998৪: ০০700 of interest poses a threat to one or more of the fundamental principles. that cannot be
eliminated of reduced to an acceptable level through the application of safeguards, the professiorial
accountant should conclude that it is not. appropriate to accept a specific engagement-or that resignation
from one or more conilicting engagements is required.
‘Interactive question 2: Conflict of interest (Difficulty level: Exam standard)
A professional Accountant in Public: Practice has had two partners, Mr: S.and Mr. R.as clients for many
years. Mr. ও is intending to sell his sharé ofthe: partnership to: Mr. R-so:that can continue:as a sole trader.
Both have asked if you will be their advisor:
Requirements
Outline the accountants’ position with regard to the potential conflict; of interest.
Answer
The firm should not usually act for both parties in a transaction. However, this can cause particular
problems where. both have previously been clients.
There are: available options,
The firm has three options,

> To act for both

> To act for one:

> To act for neither
Ina situation where there is an element of doubt, the latter is probably the preferred course. of action.
30.6 Basic principles of taxation work
Section overview
7 One of the topics included in the statement is an explanation as to the accountant's relationship with the
Client.
Agent or principal
It is very important that it is Understood when an. accountant is acting as-an agent 6n behalf of a client‘and
when he is acting as the principal. The two different capacities carry different degrees:of risk and potential
liability.
An explanation as to when an accountant is acting in each capacity:should be given in a client engagement
letter. The letter should also explain the scope of the:client's and the accountant's responsibilities in.each
case.
Agent
An accountant acts as agent'when he merely prepares:documents on behalf of a client. The client retains
responsibility for the accuracy of the document itself. The accountant is thus an agent when performing
tax compliance work.such as preparing and submitting a tax return on behalf of'a client.. The client would
be required to-sign the return prior:to its-submission.
The accountant.takes no responsibility forany information which he passes:on to the tax authorities when
acting as an agent. The accountant.is not normally liable if any of the information proves to be incorrect.

Page:| 455

Acting as an agent is therefore considered to be a low risk activity.
Principal
An accountant acts:as principal when he provides advice to the client as to the taxation consequences of
different courses of action. The accountant takes full responsibility for the advice given and may be liable
to the taxpayer in the event the advice turns out to be incorrect.or inappropriate.
Where an accountant does not have the professional skill required ‘to-act as a principal inva particular:case,
he may still accept the engagement. However; he must ensure that the opinion of a suitably qualified
accountant is sought.
Acting as a principal is therefore considered to be a high-risk activity.
30.7 Tax authority’s errors
Section overview
0 One of the topics included in the statement is: Tax Authority’s errors.
Tax authority’s errors
It may be apparent to the professional accountant that a mistake.has been made by Tax Authorities, such
as:
« Thé raising of an inadequate assessment
« An under collection of tax or interest
« An over repayment of tax or interest
The mistake may’ be:
# Misinterpretation of law
2 A calculation. or clerical error oo
দ A misunderstanding on the part of tax Authorities of the facts as presented
Professional accountants are. advised to include in their letters, of engagement authority to advise, Tax
Authorities: of errors, so that consent from the client is. not needed. Where no such authority has: been
obtained, the procedure-set;out below must be followed.
Where. the accountant becomes aware that Tax Authorities, in full possession. of the. facts, has made.a
material error in dealing with the affairs of a client, the professional accountant.should seek the client's
authority to write to Tax Authorities for correction of error.
In cases of a Tax Authorities error, the professional accountant ‘should refer the matter to:the client. The
client-should be:
« Asked to authorize the professional accountant'to. advise Tax Authorities of the error; and
« Warned of the possible legal consequences if he is reluctant to give the authority sought, including interest
and penalties and possible: criminal prosecution; and
Advised that if consent is not given, the accountant. will consider taking independent, legal advice witha
view to:
« Notifying Tax.Authorities in any event, and notifying the client.of his action; and
৭ Ceasing to act for the client.
Page | 456

The professional accountant should ensure ‘that a written record is’ kept of all advice given to clients. in
connection with Tax Authorities. errors.
If a professional accountant.is specifically asked by Tax Authorities to agree a figure, he must agree what
he believes to be the correct figure; this may be.a figure negotiated in the course of:discussions following
full disclosure of the facts and circumstances... He may not accept a figure he: knows to be incorrect, and
he does not need to seek his client's authority to disclose to Tax Authorities its errors in this case.
30.8 .Anti-money laundering
Section overview

> Money Laundering Prevention Act, 2002 has been published with the purpose of combating money
laundering

> Accountants should comply the requirement relating to. money-laundering
Money laundering
Definition
Money laundering is the process of changing large amounts of money obtained from.crimes, such as drug
trafficking into origination from a legitimate source.
Money Laundering is the process by which criminals attempt to conceal the true origin and ownership of
the proceeds of criminal activities. If successful, the money can lose its criminal identity and appear
legitimate.
In terms of section 2 (tha) of Money Laundering Prevention Act, 2002, "Money Laundering means::

(a) Properties acquired or earned directly or indirectly through illegal means;

(b) Illegal transfer, conversion, concealment of location or assistance in the: above act of the properties
acquired or earned directly or indirectly through legal or illegal means."
In this Act, “Properties means movable or immovable properties of any nature and description”.
The term. Money Laundering is used for a number of offences involving the proceeds of‘crime or terrorist
funds. It now includes possessing, or in any‘way dealing with, or concealing, the proceeds of any crirrie.
Someone is, engaged in money laundering under where they:

দ Acquire .or earn properties directly or‘indirectly' through illegal means

« Transfer; convert, conceal location or assist in the above act.of the properties acquired or earned directly
or indirectly through legal or illegal means
Where a professional accountant suspects that a client is involved in money laundering, he.should report
this to the:authorities.
Tax related offences
Tax related offences are not in a special category: The proceeds or monetary. advantage arising from tax
offences.are treated no differently from.the proceeds of theft, drug trafficking or other criminal conduct.
Anti-money laundering procedures
Business neéds to maintain some: procedures:
Appoint.a Money: Laundering Reporting Officer (MLRO).and implement internal reporting procedures

Page | 457

5৭. Train staff to ensure that they are aware.of the relevant legislation, know how to recognize, and deal with
‘potential money’ laundering, how to report:suspicions to:the MLRO, .and how to identify clients
« Establish internal procedures appropriate to deter and prevent money laundering, and make relevant
individuals aware of the procedures. .
দ Verify the identity of new clients and maintain evidence of identification _
«® Maintain records of'client identification, and any. transactions undertaken for or with the: client
» Report suspicions of money laundering
Records of client identification and transactions also need to be maintained for few years.
Client confidentiality in relation to money laundering
An accountant should disclose confidential information without client consent in certain circumstances. In
order to. disclose confidential information. the accountant must. have knowledge or suspicion, or
reasonable grounds‘for knowledge or suspicion, that a person has committed.a money laundering offence.
Disclosure without reasonable grounds for knowledge or suspicion will increase the risk of a business or
an individual being open to an action for breach of confidentiality. Punishment for money laundering
If any person is engaged in Money Laundering in any way he ‘will be regarded as a person who has
committed a crime: and the concerned accused for that crime will be sentenced to imprisonment for at
least a period of six months and a maximum of seven ‘years.and will be-fined 'for.an amount not exceeding
double the amount involved in the crirfie.
30.9 Tax evasion vs. tax avoidance
Section overview
> Tax evasion is illegal and tax avoidance is.legal.
> Tax evasion could lead to prosecution for both the cliént and his a¢countant
> Tax avoidance through legal procedure
Tax evasion
Tax evasion consists of seeking to mislead tax authorities by either:
0 Suppressing information to which tax authorities is entitled, for example by:
- Failing to notify‘tax authorities ofa liability to tax.
- Undérstating income or:gains
- Omitting to disclose:a relevant fact
Or
Providing tax authorities with deliberately false information, for example by:
- Deducting expenses that have not been incurred
- Claiming capital allowances on plant that has not been purchased
Minor cases of'tax evasion are generally settled out of court via the payment of penalties. However, there
is a'statutory offence of evading income tax that can be dealt with in a magistrate‘s. court.
Serious cases of tax evasion, particularly those involving fraud, continue to be the subject of criminal
prosecutions which may lead to fines and/or imprisonment on conviction.
Furthermore, tax evasion offences will fall within the definition of money laufdering and in certain ০৪5০5
individuals may be prosecuted under one of the money laundering offences.. This includes both the under
declaring of income and the over claiming of expenses:
Page | 458

If the assets of any clients were derived from illegal activities’ or if the client has committed tax. evasion
that considered under money laundering, a threat‘to:compliance with the fundamental principles’ would be
created. In such situations, the professional accountant may consider seeking legal advice and he:should
report this to the authorities.
Tax avoidance
Tax avoidance is not defined, but is broadly any legal method of:reducing the tax burden. ;
The distinction between tax evasion and tax avoidance is usually obvious as: avoidance has no. intention
of misleading tax authorities.
Thé accountant'should take care in situations, 0176১877016, where:a client believes’that his tax:avoidance
has been successful and so does not submit:a tax return.
Example-1
(a) You have been invited by the:organizersof a seminar to:deliver lecture’on the:responsibilities of a Chartered
Accountant rendering professional tax services. The organizers of the seminar informed you about the
average: understanding level of the participants. According to the organizers, the participants might have
perception that a Chartered Accountant:rendering professional tax services is obliged to act absolutely in
the interest of his/her client/employer.
Requirements:
Prepare handouts addressing the following issues'for ‘distribution at the.seminar to be held next month:
i) Responsibilities of a practicing Chartered Accountant to the public while rendering tax advisory services.
ii) Guidance for a Chartered Accountant, working in the tax department of a:;company, on conflict-of loyalties.
Answer-1 (a):
(a)Responsibilities of.a practicing Chartered Accountant to the public while rendering tax advisory
services
A distinguishing mark, of a profession is acceptance of its responsibility to the public. The accountancy
profession’s public. consists:of clients, credit grantors, governments, employers, employees, investors, the
business and. financial community, and others who rely‘ on the objectivity and integrity of professional
accountants to maintain the orderly functioning of commerce.
This reliance imposeés.a public: interest résponsibility on the:accountaricy profession. The. public interest is
defined as the collective well-being of the community of people and institutions the professional accountant
serves.
Professional accountants. have an important role in society. Investors, credITArs, employers and other
sectors of the business community, as well as the government and the public at large rely on professional
accountants for'sound financial accounting and reporting, effective financial management and competent
advice. on a variety of business. and taxation matters. The attitude: and behavior of professional
accountants in providing such services have an impact on the economic well-being of their community
and country.
It is in the best interest of the worldwide: accountancy profession to make known to users of the services
‘provided by professional accountants that they are executed at the highest level, of performance ‘and in
accordance with ethical requirements that strive to ensure such performance. Tax experts help to establish
confidence and efficieénicy in, and the fair application of, the ‘tax system. A professional accountant’s
responsibility is not exclusively to satisfy the needs of an individual client or employer. The standards of
the accountancy profession are heavily.determined by the public interest. As:such,.a Chartered Accountant
in practice, who advises on tax matters, also bears significant responsibilities’to:the. public.
Page| 459

(8) Guidance for a Chartered Accountant, working in the tax department of a company, on conflict of
loyalties:
Employed professional accountants owe a duty of loyalty‘to their employer as. well as to. their profession
and there may be times. when the two are in conflict. An employee’s normal priority'should be to support
his:or her organization's legitimate and ethical objectives and the rules and procedures drawn up insupport
of them. However, an employee cannot legitimately be required to:
(a) Break the law;
(8) Breach the rules: and standards of their profession; _
(c) Lie to of mislead (including misleadirig by keeping silent) those.acting as audITArs to the employer; or
(0) Put their name to or otherwise be associated with a statement which materially misrepresents the facts.
Differences in view about the correct judgment.on accounting,or ethical matters.should normally be. raised
and resolved within the employee’s organization, initially with the employee's immediate: superior and
possibly thereafter, where disagreement about a significant ethical issue remains, with higher levels of
management or non-executive. directors.
If employed accountants cannot resolve any material issue involving a ‘conflict between their employers
and their professional requirements they may, after exhausting all other relevant possibilities, have no
other recourse but to consider resignation. Employees should state their reasons for doing so to the
employer but.their duty of confidentiality normally precludes them from communicating the issue to others
(unless legally or professionally required to do so).
Page | 460

(aor 3. f EN od Oo KEINE
Chapter 31
Tax Planning
Contents
Topic. List.
370° What does tax planning really mean? ee
31.1 How tax planning and financial planning are connected? eS
341.0 What does tax planning really mean?
Tax planning is the art of arranging affairs: in ways that postpone or avoid taxes., By employing effective
tax planning strategies, anyone can have more.money to save and invest or more money to spend or both.
[059 choice.
Put another way, tax planning means deferring and flat-out avoiding taxes by taking advantage’ of
beneficial tax-law provisions; increasing and accelerating tax deductions and investment tax rebates, and
génerally making maximum use of all applicable area under our beloved IT Act,1984.
Of course, we should not change your financial behavior solely‘to avoid taxes. Truly:effective tax planning
strategies. are those that permit Us'to.do what we. warit while reducirig tax burden along the way.
Thus, ‘tax: planning’ means dealing with the tax matters of'a taxpayer with 9 view to maximizing the after-
tax rate of return on investments:after ensuring voluntary tax compliance. For this. purpose, each taxpayer
has’to
1. Ensure that proper records are kept;
2. Deduct tax at source where it is nécéssary;
3.. Pay advance tax in time, if applicable;
4. File returns in time;
5. Comply with notices received from the tax authorities; and. রা
6. Be aware of legal remedies where 10065 not have its rights ‘under the law recognized.
Tax planning takes maximum advantage of the exemptions, deductions, rebates, reliefs and other: tax
concessions allowed by taxation statutes, leading to the reduction of the. tax liability of the tax payer.
31.1 How tax planning and financial planning are connected?
Financial planning is the art of implementing strategies that help us to reach our financial goals, be they
short-term or long-term: That sounds pretty simple. However, if the actual execution was simple, there
would be:a lot richer folks.
Page | 461

Tax planning and financial planning are closely linked, because taxes are such a large expense item as
we go through life. If we become really'successful, taxes will probably be-our single biggest expense over
the long haul. So, planning to reduce taxes is a critically important piece of the overall financial planning
process.
Problem-1
Mr. Shin, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Techno wofld Inc., a Singapore based IT company has
appointed you as tax consultant:and sought your opinion onthe areas of tax planning so as to prepare.an
effective business plan.
Techno world wants to expand its business in Bangladesh by providing IT based solutions in many
industries along with BPO services, It wants to set up a liaison office. But:it has been advised by BIDA to
incorporate a company in Bangladesh with 100% equity ownership to run the. business.
In the first year it has a plan of selling BDT 1Bn of IT and BDT 500 Mn:of BPO services with 10% increment
in each of the following two years. If the service:charges.are remitted from Bangladesh, the purchaser will
deduct 20% of withholding tax. of it and 15% VAT will be borne by the. service recipient. Techno world
achieves 20% income before tax on net proceeds and has 25% corporate tax rate in Singapore. If it
incorporates ‘a company in Bangladesh, the services it will deliver will fall under ITES (information
technology enable services) and in accordance of business plan it will achieve 30% Income before tax.
Under double taxation avoidance: agreement, Dividend from Bangladesh to Sifigaporé is subject to
maximum 15% tax withholding.
Requirement:
Give your opinion to Techno world elaborating the aspects: of the above-mentioned options with
demonstrating financial impact.
Answer to problem no-1:
‘Mr. Shin,
Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Techno world Ine:
Subject: Opinion regarding ‘tax planning and techniques
Dear Sir,
We refer your letter dated 15 April 2023 where you have narrated a plan of busiriéss with Bangladesh and
requested us to provide our opinion on the areas: of tax planning which will enable you to prepare an
effective business plan. We are submitting the following analysis and suggestions which will curtail the tax
burden for your prospective business. complying, the tax legislations presently enforced in Bangladesh.
Techno world wants to expand its business in Bangladesh by providing IT based solutions in many
industries along with BPO services. Initially it wants to set up:a liaison office: It has: been advised by BIDA
to incorporate a company in Bangladésh with 100% ‘equity ownership ‘to, run ‘the business. Hence, there
are two-options.in hands, namely, selling services from abroad where liaison office will play a coordination
role and setting a local fully owned subsidiary of Techno: world to: deliver the: services, to Bangladeshi
customers locally.
Relevant tax: regulations. in Bangladesh:
(a) As per para (21) of 6" Schedule, Part 1 of ITA, 2023, income derived from some business of a person
' being resident or non-resident Bangladeshi between July: 2008 to June 2024: shall be exempted income,
services, includes--Software development; Software or application customization, Nationwide
Télecommunication Transmission Network (NTTN), Digital conterit development and management, Digital
Page | 462

animation development, Website development, Website services, Web listing, IT process outsourcing,
Website: hosting, Digital graphic design, Digital data entry and processing, Digital data. .analytics,
Geographic information service (GIS), IT support. and software. maintenance ‘service, Software. test lab
service, Call Centre service, Overseas: medical transcriptions, Search Engine Optimization service,
Document conversion, imaging and digital archiving, Robotic process: outsourcing, Cyber security.
services, Cloud service, System Integration, E-learning platform, E-book.publications, Mobile application,
development service; and IT Freelancing. ,

(b) Under Finance. Act 2023, the corporate tax rate of a non-listed company is 27:5%.

(c). Under section 117 of ITA, 2023, the tax deduction rate on payment of:dividend is 20%.

(d) Based on article 24 of Double. Taxation Avoidance Treaty. between Singapore and Bangladesh, Tax
deducted at source in Bangladesh will be-eligible to take. credit in Sirigapore to the extent of tax: computed
on the same income.

(6) As per sec 119 of ITA, 2023, foreign remittance on account of [T solutions and BPO related services to-a
non-resident Bangladeshi is subject to deduction of tax at source. @, 20% under'the category of Technical
service fees or Technical knowhow fees.

(f). As per VAT law, for the import of services, service recipient will be: responsible: to pay VAT and will be

~ eligible for input VAT credit against the treasury challan of the deposit of VAT.

Analysis of tax legislations applicable for Techno world:

Techno world has:two alternatives:for doing business here.in Bangladesh. It can sell services from:abroad
where: liaison office will playa coordination role or set a local fully owned subsidiary’ of Techno world
Singapore to deliver the:services to Bangladeshi customers locally.

From the perspective: of tax laws, if it sells. services to Barigladesh from Singapore, it will réceive the
proceeds in Singapore, which will be remitted by the’service recipients in Bangladesh. This remittance will
be subject to withholding tax @ 20% as per ITA; 2023 after which the net proceeds will be remitted to
Techno world from Bangladesh. In Singapore, Techno world will be eligible to take the credit of tax
deducted at sotirce in Bangladesh. VAT will be borne by’the service. recipient and will be eligible for input
VAT credit. It will incur cost:neither to Techno world nor to the service. recipients in Bangladesh.

If Techno world Singapore. sets a local fully owned subsidiary in. Bangladesh, it will be subject to 27:5%
‘corporate tax rate. Moreover, in accordance with double taxation avoidance treaty between Singapore
and Bangladesh, the payment. of dividend from Bangladesh is subject. to 15% tax withholding in
Bangladesh which we can assume. will be available for full foreign tax credit by Techno world.in Singapore.
Outcome in Business plan after tax impacts:

Tax deduction at 300,000,000 330,000,000 363,000,000.
owosmaogao% | | মা | eee

Remittance i.e.Net C=A-B 1,200,000,000 1,320,000,000. 1,452,000,000

pecs | | ee oe | eee

Income before tax 240,000,000 264,000,000 290,000,000

[Goseonnetproseeds| | | eee | 0M

Credit on corporate tay F 60,000,000 66,000,000 72,500,000
on business from BD.
under
DTAA
Net profit after tax for D-E+F 240,000,000 264,000,000 290,000,000
Techno world

pO রা
Page | 463

মারাররেরেছেেে রোযার রা
(98৪10609/9 | _Equation| 1ভল/1 ~—s | — ০৪12 | Year
Income before tax 450,000,000 495,000,000 544,500,000
রা ee ae
proceeds

Corporate tax rate in Cc 123,750,000 136,125,000 149,737,500
BD (27.5%)

Income after‘tax /’ D=B-C 326,250,000 358,875,000 394,762,500
Gross dividend income

of Techno world

Withholding tax:on চ 43,875,000 48,262,500 53,088,750
dividend (15%)

Net remittance: of F=D-E 282,375,000 310,612,500. 341,673,750
dividend to Techno

world

Corporate tax of G= 25% of 81,562;500 89,718,750 98,690,625
‘Techno world (25%) ০ D

‘dividend

Withholding'tax credit’ H=E 43,875,000 48,262,500, 53,088,750

on dividend taken by

Techno world under

DTAA

Singapore

Net profit ‘after tax:for J=F-I 244 687,500 269,156,250 296,071,875
Techno world

Suggestions:

From the above table of business plan ‘analysis, it is found that, for the first three years in Singapore
Techno world will earn Tk. 794,000,000 if it sells services from Singapore to Bangladesh and Tk.
809,915,625 if it sets a fully owned subsidiary in Bangladesh.

Hence, after putting the taxation impacts, considering the change in financial of Techno world, Singapore,
you should opt to’ set a:local fully owned subsidiary. of Techno world Singapore: to deliver the services to
Bangladeshi customers locally.

Thank you very much for taking us to your'confidence. Should you require any clarification, please do not
hesitate to contact us.

Thanking you,

Problem-2

You are a Chartered Accountant in practice and have expertise in income. tax.matters.. Mr. ABC (“Client”)
is your client-and a director of XYZ Ltd. (“Company”). He has provided you with the following information
and requested to consider each case-separately:
Page | 464

(a) The Client is interested to do his own tax planning for the income year 2022-23 on the basis of following
forecasted information and ‘considering the provisions of prevailing tax laws:
Particulars Tk. |
Gross interést income from savings instruments (taxable) 300,000
Tax deduction at:Source @ 10% from interest income 30,000
Income from house property (taxable) 180,000
Income from salary (taxable) _ 450,000
Investment eligible for tax:credit 100,000
Requirements:
Provide the Client:with the information about his taxable income, investment allowance, net tax payable
and suggest him whether he-should invest in savings instruments.

(b) The Client is planning to buy a residential flat of 500 square meter (sqm) locatéd at Gulshan along with
0.50 katha share of land from a real estate company. The total purchase price of the flat is Tk. 5,750,000,
which is sum of land value.of Tk. 2,000,000. and flat value of Tk:3,750,000-

Answer to question No-2:
Answer :( a)
The required information is provided below on the basis of forecasted information relating to Income year
2022-23 applying provisions of tax laws for AY 2023-24:
_ Name-of Assessee: ABC
Taxpayer's Identification Number: . ; a
Statement of Forecasted Income during the income year ended on 30June, 2023
Particulars Taxable Tax
Income (Taka)
(Taka)
1, Income'from employment: u/s 32 | | 450,000 | ss
2. Interest on-securities: u/s 62 (gross interest'on savings instruments) |_| 300,000 | |
3. Income from house property: u/s 36 || 180,000 | —ss
4. Total income: (1+2+3) a: 930,000 |
5. Tax leviable on total income (Note.2) fo | 53,000
6. Tax rebate
15,000
7. Tax payable: (difference between serial no. 5.and 6)
48,000.
8. Tax Payments (tax deducted from interest.on savings instruments) রর
30,000
9. Net tax payable (difference between serial no. 8 and 9)
18,000
Note 1:
Page | 465

Tax deduction at:source from the interest on:savings.instruments shall be deemed to be the final discharge
of tax liabilities as per provisions of section 163.
Note 2:
Tax on Taxable Income excluding interest.on savings Instruments:
Slabs/Paiticulars Taxable:Income | Rate Tax (TK.)
(Tk.)
First 0%
350,000
Next: 5%
100,000 5,000
(a) Tax payable on taxable’ income excluding interest on
savings. instruments
(b) Tax deducted at source from interest on savings
instruments (Final tax-as per section 163). 30,000
(a+b) Total tax payable (including 163) 53,000
Investment Allowance & Tax rebate: Tk.
(a) 15% of actual Investment made. during the
Income year} 15,000
a 28,500
(b) 3% %. of total taxable 00000070076
15,000
(c) Maximum Limit
Investment tax.
rebate,. lower of above |
Page | 466

Note 3:
Tax savings for making investment in savings instruments:
0-960
15% Tax Slab on 180,000 a 0 | 27,000
89.000
300.000
Tax’ Deduction at Source.and minimum pf 30,000
9,000
As per aforementioned computation, tax savings is Tk..9,000.
Answer :( b)
The computation of tax: to be. collected at source by the registering officer responsible for registering any
document of a. person. has been: computed below:
Particulars} Quantity) Déed’Valug Rate. Amount] Tax Remarks
(Tk.) (Tk.) | Payable
Tk.
Land 0.50 4% of deed value ০০০০০ |
Katha | 2,000,000 80,000 Whichever
Tk. 300,000/Katha 150,000 | is higher
150,000
Flat 500.sq 4% of deed value
3,750,000 150,000 Whichever
Tk. 600/sqm 300,000 | is higher
300,000
Total tax to. be collectéd at ৪০066: by’ the
registering officer 7 450,000
As per section '53H of the ITA, 1984, and rule 17II ofthe ITR, 1984, tax on transfer of property shall be
collected from the person whose right, title or interest is sought to be transferred, assigned, limited or
extinguished thereby, at the time of registration of transfer document..
Question No.3:
You are a practicing-chartered accountant.and focused on taxation areas. Before finalizing business plan
for the year ended 31 December: 2022, ABC Ltd. (“Company”) wants to know the effect of section 56 on
computation of minimum. tax dnd carry forward of unabsorbed depreciation. In ‘this: régard, the Company,
has’ requested you to help. them based on the following situations:
Page | 467

Situation-
ee ee | ৮
firiancial statements
non-availability of appropriate evidences
Trade liability created and-deducted in AY| 25 25 25 25
2018-2019, but would remain unpaid in
the income year corresponding, to AY
2022-2023
audited FS
schedule.
openngbaensy | রাম চাচার
opening balance
fecrremmenisiremss| নম মম
rent

Other: information:,
1) Income of the Company falls under'the sources mentioned in section 163;
2) The Company plans to make a partial of adjustment of Tk. 45,000/= cut of total depreciation allowance
available in situation-4;
3) Apply 45% corporate tax rate and minimum tax at the rate of 2%.
Requirement: You are requested to compute tax liability for each of the illustrations provided in the above
table along with. opinion on the issues, in question from the standpoint of the ITA, 2023.
Solution 3:
The Chief Financial Officer:
Dhaka, Bangladesh
eo.:.November 2022.
Dear Sir:
Computation of tax liability and pertinent issues
Please refer to your request.dated  for providing professional opinion(s):on the issue(s) raised
therein. In this ‘connection, our analysis focuses on the following provisions of tax laws:
According the provision of section 56 of the ITA, 2023, notwithstanding anything contained in section 620
or any loss or profit computed under the head “Income: from business or profession”, the amount of
disallowances made under section 30 shall be treated separately as “Income from business.or profession”
and the tax shall be: payable thereon at:the regular rate. It is notable that section 30B. of the ITA, 2023..
has been inserted to ensure collection of tax from the expenditures inadmissible under the provisions of
section 55 of the same Act. In this connection, section 78 of the ITA, 2023, may be discussed here. As
per the said -séction, notwithstanding anything contained in Section 78 or any other Section, any:
disallowance of expenditure under section 55, in calculating the income of a.source or of a person that is
Page | 468

exempted from ‘tax. or is subject to a reduced rate of tax, shall be treated as income for that source or of
that person, as the case may be, and. tax shall be payable on such income.at'the: regular rate. Section 78
as referred to above deals with exemption from tax, reduction in tax rate, tax credit entitlement, etc.
In light 0076 aforementioned provisions. of tax laws, we have reviewed the tax implications for business
of the Company on the basis of situations provided by you and presented below:
‘Particulars
| Situation-1 ['Situation-2 | Situation-3 [ Situation-4 |
INetincomebeforetax, a as]
[Total income before allowing depreciation | aete243 | 200] a] [250
|Depreciationallowances asthe auditedFS Ta 6007 10710 10]
|Depreciation‘allowances as the 3rd'schedule | TO 3007 30 80
audited FS & 3rd schedule :
|Unabsorbed depreciation. allowances (opening balance). | 6 TT SOTO
|Depreciation allowance forthe year CT নল্ভক6 |] 20 এছ OT
income from business (excluding section 30) | ভন | Bo] |
formora slowences to Peer সো স্মরন
forward |
linadmissible expenditure 78056০0০030 |] BO of ৪8567 ৪০]
19 (other income)
[Totaltaxable income Cd 1158+8+16) es] 1405 t0s[ 330]
|Grossreceipts 5000] 5666 5,000[ 5,000
[Minimum taxon gross receipts@2% CT Toto too 100
neome om business (excluding seston Se) @aER | veel ০ ০
19 (other income) @ 45%
|Regulartax(excluding'section 30) sd AAs |] zt atta 943 |
[TDS from sources mentioned.in section 82C (2)(b) | a7 | so] OT SOT 5
[Tax.payable: Higher of13,16&17 Tt too tof 106 4433
[Assessed tax liability |] 20518+19 | Be] 136) t36[ 149)
As regards carry forward of unabsorbed depreciation, section 71 of the ITA, 2023, states that where, in
making an assessment for‘any year, full effect cannot be given‘to the allowances referred to in section 49
owing to there being no profits or gains chargeable for that year or such profits or gains being less than
the allowance then, subject to the provisions of section 158, the allowance or part. of the allowance to
which effect has not been given, as ‘the case may be, shall be added to the amount of the allowance for
depreciation for the following ‘year and be deemed to be part of ‘that allowance. or if ‘there: is no such
allowance for that year, be deemed to be the allowance for that:'year and so.on for succeeding years.
While addressing, limitation in respect of allowarice for depreciation, 3rd Schedule of thé ITA,. 2023,
‘provides. that where full effect cannot be given to depreciation allowances under the aforementioned
Schedule. in the year in which it is admissible: there being no income: chargeable. for that year or such
income being less:than the allowance. admissible, then, subject first to carrying forward of the loss, if any,
‘under section 70, the allowances or the part.thereof to which effect has not been given shall be added to
the amount of the allowance.for the following year or, if no allowance:is admissible for such following year,.
‘shall be deemed to be allowance admissible for ‘such year and so on for succeeding, years. till such time
as‘the entire allowance. on this account is:adjusted against the profits.
In light of the, partial adjustment of unabsorbed depreciation allowance is not permitted by tax laws if there
‘is, sufficient taxable profit‘from business for making full adjustment.
Should you have:further queries ‘in this regard, please contact us.
Yours faithfully,
Page | 469

৷ Bie | ae Eee a =
LLNS EO BI GENS ed SO ff ও ডি
SSS ৩০৯১৩ ENS SSR ea ae fm ea ae
SSS ARE SSE ২ ৩ cts eee ই ee
Chapter 32

Gift Tax

Introduction

Examination context

Topic List
© 32.27 Valuation of git '
"32.3 ৷ Gift Tax Authorities |
“325° GitTaxRate eee দস এত এপস rosi5si52255: ~: 22255522 ~
7326. Exemption from gif tai ৷ ্ দাাও৫_্
| Introduction |
The Gift Tax Act, 1963, which was repealed in 1985 has been re-introduced under the name “The Gift
Tax Act, 1990” with the provisions almost similar to those in the act of 1963 but with more. liberal
exemptions. The gift tax is chargeable on gifts executed by any person in a financial year with effect from
the 1১ day of July: 1990. at the rates prescribed in the Schedule.
[Examination context ]
Exam requirements

In the examination, candidates may be required to:

Identify the. nature of gift

When gift is taxable:

Who will bear gift;tax- donor or receiver

When gift tax is payable

32.1 Meaning of Gift
Page | 470

“Gift” means the transfer of any immovable-or movable property by one. person to another voluntarily and
without any consideration of money or money's worth.
32.2 Valuation of Gift:
The value of the property transferred as gift, other than cash, shall be determined in terms of its value to
be obtained had the property been sold in the open market on the date of gift. Where the value of the
property is not:determinable at this process, its value.shall be determined as per rules.
32.3 Gift Tax Authorities
The following income tax authorities are also the gift tax authorities: -
Commissioner of Taxes, : রা
Appellate. Additional/Joint Commissioner of Taxes,
Inspecting Additional/Joint Commissioner of Taxes,
Deputy Commissioner of Taxes and
Tax Recovery Officer
32.4 Submission of gift tax return
Any person making a taxable-gift.during any’financial year requires'to submit gift tax return to the Deputy
Commissioner of Taxes (DCT) before the fifteenth day of September of the corresponding assessment
year. Tax based on Gift tax return is to be paid on or before submission of return.
32.5 Rate_of Gift Tax
On the first'Taka '5,00,000/- of taxable gift ---- 5%
On the next Taka 10,00,000/- of taxable gift oo 10%
On the next Taka 20,00,000/- of taxable gift nate 15%
On the balance of taxable gift — 20%
32.6 Exemption from Gift Tax:
Gift tax shall not be applicable under Gift Tax Act for gifts made by any person jin respect of the following:
(1) Where the gifted property is situated outside Bangladesh.
(2) Where the gift is made to the Government or any local authority.
(3) Where the gift is made to the following funds or institutions for charitable purposes:
1. | Any educational institution (including polytechnic. institute) either run by the Government or
recognized by any Education Board or any university established under the law in force in
Bangladesh.
Il. Any hospital recognized or run by the. Government or any’ local Authority or any hospital that
receives charity from the Government.
lll. | Any flood or disaster management fund either established or approved by the Government.
lV. Any Government approved religious or charitable institution (other than private religious institution
or‘fund which does not ensure the benefit.of the public as a whole) up to 20% of total income or
Tk. 1,00,000/ whichever is lower.
(4) Where the gift is made.to any dependent.relative up to Tk. 20,000/- on the. occasion of his/her marriage.
(5) Where the gift is made'to.any dependent (other'than wife)-by way of insurance premium up to Tk. 20,000/-
(6) Gift-made Under a‘will.
(7) Gift in contemplation of death.
Page | 471

(৪) Gift made:to.son, daughter; father; mother, spouse, own brother'and sister.
In addition to the above exemptions, no gift tax shall be applicable for any gift made by any person in a
financial year not.exceeding Tk. 20,000/. The Government may by’notification in the official gazette.exempt
any class of gift or any class of person from gift tax.
32.7 Limitation of implementing gift tax law:.
Gift.tax law will, however, not-apply in case of gifts made: by:
(1) A.body: corporate established or constituted by or under any law. _
(2) Any institution or fund, income of which is: éxempt from payment of income tax as per provision of
Paragraph 11 and 12 of Part 1 of the Sixth Schedule of the Income Tax Act, 2023.
FOR FURTHER. COMMUNICATION:
Study Manual Department _ a
Education and Student Affairs Division
CA Bhaban
100, Kazi, Nazrul Islam Avenue:
Kawran Bazar, Dhaka 1215
Tel :, +8809612612100 Ext: 171 / 141
Email : pantho@icab:org-bd'
Page | 472